 
 
Page 
1
 
of 
1
 
 
 
ISSUANCE DATE: 
 
 
January 6, 2021
 
 
RFP
 
NO.:
 
RFP No. 
ASPA21.003 
A/E WW Collection System 

 
Matu

u/Faganenea
 
 
 
SUBJECT:
 
 
 
Addendum No. 
2
 
 
The American Samoa Power Authority hereby issu
es Addendum No. 
2
 
to amend Request for 
P
roposal
s
 
(
RFP
) 
requirements.  This addendum is issued pursuant to the conditions of the 
RFP
 
documents and is hereby made part of 
the 
RFP
.  The addendum serves to clarify, revise, and supersede information contained in the 
RFP
.  The Offeror 
must acknowledge
 
receipt of this addendum in the appropriate space provided in the Addendum Form.  Failure to do 
so may subject the Offeror to disqualification. 
 
 
1.
 
The 
closing date for this tender has been extended as follows:
 
 
Closing Date:
 
Monday, February 8, 2021 at 2:00PM 
 
 
Bids received prior to this date will not be opened until the bid has officially c
losed on the date 
listed above.  Addendum #1 incorrectly stated the year as 2020. 
 
 
2.
 
Responses to inquirie
s received regarding this tender are listed on the following page.
 
 
Should you have any questions or need clarifica
tion, please call me at (684) 699
-
3057 or 
procurement@aspower.com
.
 
 
Sincerely,
 
 

 
Procurement Manager
 
 
Please si
gn and date below to acknowledge receiving Addendum 
2
.
  
You may return this document via email at 
bids@aspower.com
 
or 
procurement@aspower.com
, 
or the ASPA Procurement Of
fice.
 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF RECEIVING ADDENDUM 
2
 
Received by 
 
 
 
 
 
 
, this 
 
 
day of 
_______________________ 
2021
.
 
Company 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Title 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fax No. 
 
 
 
 
   
Email Address 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
American Samoa Power Authority
 
P.O. Box PPB
 
Pago Pago, American Samoa 96799
 
Telephone: (684) 
699
-
3057
 
Email: 
bids@aspower.com
 
 
Website: 
www.aspower.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
 
             
 
 
 
 
Page 
1
 
of 
1
 
 
 
ISSUANCE DATE: 
 
 
December 15, 2020
 
 
RFP
 
NO.:
 
RFP No. ASPA21.002 A/E 
WW Collection System 

 
Matuu/
Faganeanea
 
 
 
SUBJECT:
 
 
 
Addendum No. 
1
 
 
The American Samoa Power Authority hereby issu
es Addendum No. 
5
 
to amend Request for 
Proposal
s
 
(
RFP
) 
requirements.  This addendum is issued p
ursuant to the conditions of the 
RFP
 
documents and is hereby made part of 
the 
RFP
.  The addendum serves to clarify, revise, and supersede information contained in the 
RFP
.  The Offeror 
must acknowledge receipt of this addendum in the appropriate space prov
ided in the Addendum Form.  Failure to do 
so may subject the Offeror to disqualification. 
 
 
1.
 
The closing date for this tender has been extended as follows:
 
 
Closing Date:
 
Monday, February 8, 2020 at 2:00PM
 
Bids received prior to this date will not be op
ened until the bid has officially closed on the date 
listed above. 
 
 
2.
 
Responses to inquiries received regarding 
this tender are listed on the following page.  
 
 
Should you have any quest
ions or need clarifica
tion, please call me at (684) 699
-
3057 or 
procurement@aspower.com
.
 
 
Sincerely,
 
 

 
Procurement Manager
 
 
Please sign and date below to acknowledge receiving Ad
dendum 
1
.
  
You may return this document 
via email at 
bids@aspower.com
 
or 
procurement@aspower.com
, 
or the ASPA Procurement Office.
 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF RECEIVING ADDENDUM
 
1
 
Received by 
 
 
 
 
 
 
, this 
 
 
day of 
_______________________ 
2020
.
 
Company 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Title 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fax No. 
 
 
 
 
   
Email Address 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
American Samoa Power Authority
 
P.O. Box PPB
 
Pago Pago, American Samoa 96799
 
Telephone: (684) 
699
-
3057
 
Email: 
bids@aspower.com
 
 
Website: 
www.aspower.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
 
             
 
 






































ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 1 
American Samoa Power Authority 
P.O. Box PPB 
Pago Pago, American Samoa 96799 

Telephone: (684) 699-3057 
Email: 
bids@aspower.com
 Website: www.aspower .com 
    REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS (RFP)  
 ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGINEERING (A/E) SERVICE FOR THE 
DESIGN & PERMITTING OF A COMMUNITY WASTEWATER 
COLLECTION SYSTEM, AND UPGRADES TO EXSITING 
PUMPING FACILITIES 
 MATU
U/FAGANEANEA 
  RFP NO. ASPA21.003.WW 
    Issuance Date: 
 2020 
 Closing Date: 
, 2020 
  
   APPROVED FOR ISSUANCE BY: 
  
   WALLON YOUNG 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 
 ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 2 
NOTICE TO OFFERORS REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS (RFP)
   ISSUANCE DATE:
 , 2020 
RFP No.
 ASPA21.003.
WW PROJECT: 
 A/E FOR THE 
DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY
 WASTEWATER 
COLLECTION SYSTEM
, AND UPGRADES TO EX
SITING
 PUMPING 
FACILITIES 
 MATU
U/FAGANEANEA
 CLOSING DAT
E/TIME:
 , 2020 @ 2:00PM, AMERICAN SAMOA TIME 
The American Samoa Power Authority (ASPA) invites you to submit a proposal for ARCHITECTURAL 
AND ENGINEERING (A/E) SERVICES FOR THE DESIGN & PERMITTING OF A COMMUNITY 

WASTEWATER COLLECTION SYSTEM AND UPGRADE TO EXISTING WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND 

PUMPING FACILITIES 
 MATU
U/FAGANEANEA.  Project will take place in/about the villages of 
Matu
u and Faganeanea. This project is part of ASPA's effort to improve its service to the people of 
American Samoa.  This project is fully funded by the United States Environmental Protection Agency 

(USEPA). The selected Offeror must provide a proposal that specifically and completely addresses a 

plan for the completion of the tasks which are detailed in the Request for Proposal (RFP) Packet 

Attachment B, The Scope of Work (SOW). 

www.aspower.com
. For more information about 
this RFP, please contact the following person(s): 

 Procurement Manager  
ASPA Procurement Office PH:  684-699-3057 

renee@aspower.com
  The American Samoa Power Authority reserves the right to: 
 1.   Reject all proposals and reissue a new or amended RFP; 
2.   Request additional information from any Offeror 


 complete work in a timely fashion or proven technical capabilities); 

4.   Negotiate a contract with the Offeror that is selected for award; 

5.   Waive any non-material violations of rules set up in this RFP at its sole discretion. 

   ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 3 
PROPOSAL INVITATION
 RENEE LEOTELE TOGAFAU MATAUTIA, PROCUREMENT MANAGER 
AMERICAN SAMOA POWER AUTHORITY
 P.O. BOX PPB
 PAGO PAGO, AS 96799 
(684) 699
-3057 
renee@aspower.com
  DATED ISSUED
:   PROPOSAL INVITATION NO
: RFP No. ASPA2
1.003.WW
  INSTRUCTIONS:
 1.   This REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL shall require a 
Cost Proposal
 to be submitted in a separate sealed 
envelope, box, or other encl
osure
 2.   All required submittals, including the Cost Proposal must be addressed to the ASPA Procurement
 Manager at the above
-listed address.
 3.   An original, four (4) hard copies, and one (1) PDF of the complete proposal must be received at 
the ASPA Procurement Office no later than  
 @ 2:00 pm American Samoa 
Time
. 
RFP No. ASPA21.003.WW A/E S
ervice for Design & 
  Permitting of a Community WW Collection System
, and Upgrades to Existing Pumping Facilities
- Matu
u/Faganeanea
 5.   Late submittals will not be opened or considered and will be determined as n
on-responsive.
 6.  
Any and all 
pre
-proposal questions 
and/or clarifications shall be submitted to Renee Leote
le 
Togafau Matautia by email at 
procurement@aspower.com
 or by ha
rd copy no later than 
December 
, 2020, at 2:00 PM. 
7.   ASPA shall issue addenda to address questions and/or clarifications as necessary.
  NOTE TO OFFERORS:
  This proposal is subject to the attached General Terms and Conditions of 

SPA21.003.WW
 A/E 
Service for Design & Permitting of a Community WW Collection System, and Upgrades to Existing 
Pumping Facilities
  Matu
u/Faganeanea
  The undersigned offers and agrees to furnish within the time specified, the articles and services at the 
price stated opposite the respective terms listed on the schedule of the cost proposal. In consideration 
of the expense 
to the American Samoa Power Authority in the opening, tabulating, and evaluating this 
and other proposals, and other considerations such as the schedule, the undersigned agrees that this 
proposal shall remain firm and irrevocable within 
One Hundred and Twenty
 (12
0) calendar days from 
the closing date to supply any or all of the items for which prices are quoted.
  Signed:
                                                   
                          
Date:
                                   
  ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 4 
AMERICAN SAMOA POWER AUTHORITY 
 SPECIAL REMINDER TO PROSPECTIVE OFFERORS 
 OFFERORS are reminded to read the Proposal Invitation Instructions and General Terms and 
Conditions attached to the RFP and to verify that each submittal requirement (see boxes to be 

checked below) of the RFP is enclosed in the submittal envelope prior to the date and time of 

proposal opening. 
[X] 
1. PROPOSAL FORMS 
a. Proposal Invitation Form (Page 4) 
b. Proposal Transmittal Form (Attachment A) 
c. OFFERORS Qualification Sheet (Attachment C) 
d. Disclosure Statement (Attachment D) 
e. Non-Collusion Statement (Attachment E) 
[X] 
2. BOND FORMS 
a.   Bid Bond Security Instructions (Attachment F) 

i. All Bid Bonds must be in the form included in the Contract Documents.  The 
Bid Bond and all other surety bonds required by ASPA, to be valid, must be 
accompanied by: 
a)   Current certificate of Authority issued by the insurance commissioner 
of the State where the surety has its primary place of business 
together with evidence acceptable to ASPA that applicable bonds will 

be valid in American Samoa. 
b)   Power of Attorney issued by the Surety to the Resident General 
Agent. 
c) Power of Attorney issued by two (2) major officers of the Surety to 
whoever is signing on their behalf. 
 NOTICE TO ALL INSURANCE AND BONDING INSTITUTIONS 
All bonds must be accompanied by or include, as applicable, the signatures of the Offeror, two 
(2) Major Officers of the Surety and the Resident General Agent, if the Surety is a foreign or alien 
surety. 
When the form is submitted to the 
American Samoa Power Authority
, it should be 
accompanied with copies of the following: 
 A.   Current Certificate of Authority to do business in American Samoa issued by the 
Department of Treasury-Revenue and Taxation. 
B.   Power of Attorney issued by the Surety to the Resident-General Agent. 

C.   Power of Attorney issued by two (2) Major Officers of the Surety to whoever is 
signing on their behalf. 
 The Bid Bond must be effective no later than the bid opening date.   The Performance Bond and 

Payment Bond must be dated and executed effectively on or after the date that a construction 

contract in entered into between such Offeror and ASPA.  The NOTICE TO PROCEED will not be 

transmitted to the Contractor until all required bonds are in place. Failure to obtain required 
bonds within a reasonable amount of time may result in contract termination and damages. 
ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 5 
[X]         3.           BUSINESS LICENSE 
Per 
Section XVII 
of this document, the Offeror shall submit a current American Samoa 
business license or must be able to obtain an American Samoa business license prior to 
the execution of a contract under this RFP. 
 [X]         4.           TECHNICAL PROPOSAL 
The Technical Proposal shall comply with all requirements in the Scope of Work as outlined 
in Attachment B of this document and must follow the format describe under this RFP. 
 [X]         5.           CONTRACT COST PROPOSAL 
The  Offeror  shall  submit  a  separately  sealed  cost  proposal  for  the 
proposal. 
 [X] 
6. SPECIAL REMINDER FORM 
This form must be completed and submitted. 
 All required forms must be signed and returned with the proposal envelope. Failure to comply 

with these requirements may result in disqualification or rejection of the proposal. 
   I,_  
  the duly authorized 
 the representative of  
                                                                                   
_, acknowledge receipt of 
this special reminder to prospective offerors together wi

RFP No. ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE 
FOR THE DESIGN & PERMITTING OF A COMMUNITY WASTEWATER COLLECTION SYSTEM, AND 
UPGRADES TO EXISTING PUMPING FACILITIES 
 MATU
U/FAGANEANEA
as of this date,                                           
202
. 
   
 
  
  ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 6 
GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
FOR A/E Service for the Design and Permitting of Community Wastewater 
Collection System, and Upgrades to Existing Pumping Facilities 
 Matu
u/Faganeanea 
 I. INTRODUCTION 
 A.   Residents in/about the villages of Matu
u and Faganeanea are utilizing cesspools and 
septic systems.  These residences have the potential to negatively impact local aquifers 
and the marine environment.   
 
 This project will not only benefit the residents located in/about Matu
u and Faganeanea
, but also the Territory of American S

The project will focus on conducting a feasibility study to compare options and 

determine costs to extend the wastewater system.   
 B.   Through this RFP, ASPA seeks to evaluate, negotiate, and contract with an experienced 
wastewater construction and environmental services consultant/contractor with utility 
construction experience, similar to this sewer expansion project, to provide and 
enact/execute a documented work plan that specifically and completely addresses the 

tasks which are listed in the Scope of Work (SOW) (Attachment B) of this document and 
all of its Appendices. 
 C.   Documentation contained within this RFP describes the specifications for the services to 
be provided in sufficient detail to permit full and open competition and to allow qualified 

Offerors to properly respond to the requirements of this RFP: 
1. Successful completion of work projects which are similar in nature to this sewer 
extension project, as specified in the SOW (Attachment B), should be described 
in the proposal and will be considered in the selection process; 
2. Staff  to  be  used  for  work  plan  completion  should  have  demonstrated 
experience on similar projects; 
3.  The capabilities and experience of local subcontractors who may be utilized for 
any portion of the work must also be documented in the proposal. 
D.   A complete description of required services and deliverables is listed in the attached 
SOW which is incorporated herein (Attachment B). 
 The intent of this RFP is to have an agreement based on the successful completion of 
the SOW (Attachment B). 
 II.
   AUTHORITY 
A.   ASPA  was  formally  established  through  legislative  action  by  the  American  Samoa 
Government (ASG) in 1981. 
B.   ASPA generates and distributes electrical power and provides water, wastewater, and 
solid waste services for the islands of American Samoa: 
ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 7 
 1. As a separate and semi-autonomous authority, ASPA was established to afford 

  2. ASPA is governed by a five-member Board of Directors which are appointed by the 
Governor of American Samoa and confirmed by the legislature. 
 3. 
Administrative Procedures Act (ASCA ยง 4.1001 et. seq.) and specific guidelines 
within the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act 

  III.   PROPOSAL DOCUMENTS 
 
Proposal Documents including plans and specifications may be obtained from the ASPA 

Procurement Office located in Tafuna.  Offerors must submit qualification documents together 
with their proposal package.  ASPA reserves the right to reject or eliminate any proposal from 
the process if the offeror does not meet minimum qualifications.
  IV.   SUBMITTALS 

 B.   The contractor will provide a cost bid 

 
 
 D.   The contractor will provide the signed Disclosure Statement as required on Attachment 
E. E.   The  contractor  will  provide  the  signed  Non-Collusion  Statement  as  required  on 
Attachment F. 
F. 
 Form as provided in Attachment H. 
G.   The Bid Invitation Form (Page 4). 
H.   The Bid Transmittal Form as provided on Attachment A. 
 V.   DATE/TIME/PLACE OF PROPOSAL SUBMITTAL AND PROPOSAL OPENING 
A.   Each Offeror must submit its proposal in a sealed envelope addressed to: 
 Renee Leotele Togafau Matautia 
Procurement Manager 

P.O. Box PPB 

Pago Pago, AS 96799 
renee@aspower.com
 B.   An original, four (4) hard copies, and an e-copy of the proposal must be received in the 
Office of Procurement on or before 
, 202
, at 2:00 p.m. American Samoa 
time
. 
 C.   Late submittals will not be opened or considered and will be determined as non- 
ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 8 
responsive. 
 D.   All Offerors shall provide sufficient written and verifiable information that responds to 
the requirements of the RFP and in accordance with the SOW. 
 E.   All inquiries or issues concerning this procurement must be submitted in 
writing only 
to 
the Procurement Manager.  Non-compliance with this condition during the bid 
solicitation and evaluation period may be a sufficient reason for bid disqualification. 
 VI.   PRE-PROPOSAL QUESTIONS AND MEETING 
A.   Any  pre-proposal  questions  and/or  clarifications  shall  be  submitted  in  writing  to 
Procurement Manager, either by hard copy or by email to 
renee@aspower.com
 B.  Pre-proposal questions must be received no later than 
December 
, 2020, @ 2:00 
pm American Samoa Time. ASPA will then issue addenda to address any questions and/or 
clarifications as may be necessary. 
C. A Pre-Proposal Meeting will be held on 
, 2020 at 10:00AM
 in the 
MMO Conference Room.  
 VIII.   ADDENDA 
1. 
  ASPA reserves the right to issue addenda for any changes to this RFP. 

 addendum that may be issued. 
 IX.   PROPOSAL PREPARATION INSTRUCTIONS 
 The response to this RFP shall include, but need not be limited to, the information 
described below.  All information submitted shall pertain to the legal entity, subsidiary, or 
affiliate which will execute the ultimate construction contract. 
 All Offerors shall provide a collated binder that includes tab separators. Electronic 
Copy is also required. Offeror shall provide sufficient written and verifiable information that 

responds to the requirements of the RFP, and in accordance with the SOW. The binder shall 

be organized as follows; 
1.   Transmittal Form 

 
 
  2.   Tab 1 
 Proposal Submission Forms 
The Offeror shall complete and include in Tab 1 all required forms as provided 

for in this RFP (refer to item 1 of the Special reminders to Offeror page 5). 
 
(Attachment C ) 
i. The Offeror shall furnish satisfactory evidence and the requisite experience, 
ability, including sufficient capital, facilities, and plant, which are necessary 

to prosecute the work successfully and promptly within the terms set forth 

in the RFP. 
ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 9 
 ii. The Offeror shall submit additional documentation regarding the 
qualifications of the firm. 
iii. The Offeror shall list and submit a dossier of personnel qualifications and 
professional credentials. 
iv. The Offeror shall submit a list of three or more references and project history 
to document a minimum of seven (7) years of specifically related 
experience. 
2.2 Licenses 
The Offerors must hold an appropriate and current professional certification 
and business licenses for the requested professional services. A copy of any 
and all professional certifications and business licenses is required in this Tab. 
2.3 Security 
The Offerors must include in this Tab all bonds required provided for under 

this RFP (refer to item 2 of the Special reminders to Offeror page 5). 
 3.   Tab 2 
 Technical Proposal 
The Offeror shall submit a full and detailed Technical Proposal, as required in this 

RFP, which describes the goods, services, and procedures that completely 

addresses the requirements presented in the Scope of Work (Attachment B
).  3.1 Project Overview 


Project. The Proposal shall include a statement acknowledging the Scope of 

Work. To demonstrate an understanding of the Scope of Work, the Contractor 
shall develop an outline description of project deliverables and include it as 
an appendix to the Proposal. As a minimum, this should include a description 

of proposed technical memoranda, report deliverables, and a preliminary list 

of drawings. 
 3.2 Project Approach 
The Proposal shall provide a detailed description of the proposed approach to 

the Project as described above. The description shall include details to 

implement the tasks described in the Scope of Work. The Offeror is 

encouraged to provide comments and enhancements to the scope provided 

tec



  3.3 Management Approach 

s management 
approach, including coordination and monitoring of project schedule, cost, 

risk, scope, communications, quality, resources, and other management 



quality control shall be clearly described in this section as well. 
 ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 10 3.4 Staff Qualifications 
This section must include the qualifications of the staff that you will assign to 
this project after your firm is selected.  At a minimum, the proposal should 

include: 
o 
Name of the designated Project Manager 
o 
Organizations  name,  functional  discipline,  and  responsibilities  of 
project team members 
o 

education, professional experience, length of time employed by your 

firm and/or subcontractor 
 ASPA has the right of reasonable rejection and/or approval of staff or sub- 

contractors assigned to the project by the offeror.  The staff named in the 

proposal shall remain assigned to the project throughout the period of the 

contract.  If ASPA rejects staff or sub-contractors, the offeror must provide 

replacement staff or sub-contractor satisfactory to ASPA in a timely manner 

and at no additional cost to ASPA. 
 ASPA will make no diversion or replacement without submission of a 

 of the proposed replacement with final approval. 
 The offeror shall clearly state if it is proposing to sub-contract any of the work 

herein. The names of the all sub-contractors together with a description and 

percentage of the work being sub-contracted are to be provided. The offeror 

assumes full liability for the performance of all subcontractors. 
 The proposal must indicate similar projects that have been completed by the 

members of the team.  At least three client references, including name, 
description of past working relationship, and current contact information, 
shall be listed for each key individual who is proposed in the organizational 

chart. 
 3.5 Firm Experience and Capabilities 
Provide ASPA with a description of your firm and examples of 

commitment to the services set forth in this RFP and/or government clients in 

general. Please address the following: 
 o 
Summarize the organizational structure, ownership and size of your 
firm plus its date of organization and current principal place of 
business 
o 



water related projects 
o 

attent

 o 
Please specify similar qualifications for all proposed subcontractors 
 ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 11 Proposal shall include profiles of  similar projects that  the  firm(s)  and 
proposed team members have completed the last fifteen (15) years 
including project  name,  date,  description  and  capacity  of  project,  
location, construction cost, and client reference including phone number. 

For each project, indicate which proposed team members worked on the 

project and describe the role/work they performed and their levels of 

involvement. 
 ASPA reserves the right to make such additional investigations as it may deem 
necessary to establish the competency and financial stability of any firm 
submitting a proposal. If, after the investigation, the evidence of competency 
and financial stability is not satisfactory in the sole opinion of ASPA, ASPA 

reserves the right to reject the proposal. 
 3.6 Project Schedule 
The Offeror shall confirm that the work can be done within the schedule 

required under this RFP. The Offeror shall prepare a schedule conforming to 

the Project Specifications (Attachment I), with no exceptions, showing all 

major project tasks, milestones, and deliverables required to complete all 

work. 
 3.7 Proposal Price 
The bid price shall include everything necessary for the prosecution and 

completion of the work and fulfillment of the Contract including, but not 

limited to, furnishing all materials, equipment, tools, plant and other facilities 

and all management, superintendents, labor and services, and field design, 

except as may be provided otherwise in the Contract Documents. 
 Estimated quantities, if any, set forth on the Form of Bid are estimates only, 
being given only as a basis for the comparison of bids, and ASPA does not 
warrant, expressly or by implication, that the actual amount of Work will 
correspond to the estimated quantities. ASPA reserves the right to increase or 
decrease the amount of any class or portion of the Work and to make changes 

in the Work as ASPA may deem necessary or appropriate. The basis of 

payment for unit price bid items for which estimated quantities were set forth 

on the Form of Bid shall be the actual number of unit items provided or 

performed under this Contract. 
 All prices shall be in legible figures written in ink or typed.  Lump sum bid items 

and unit price bid items shall be stated in United States of America dollars and 

cents omitting digits more than two places to the right of the decimal point 

(e.g., $720.74). 
 3.8 Confirmation of Subcontractors 
The Offeror shall provide letters of intent from each of the nominated 
subcontractors and a clear description of the services proposed including any 
limitations.  (
See 
Section 3.4 Staff Qualifications) 
 ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 12 3.9 References 
Provide: 
o 
List or describe representative clients currently or recently served 
focusing on clients in similar size and complexity to ASPA 
o 
Provide the current name, address, telephone number and contact 
person of at least six (6) specific references your firm has served 
within the past fifteen (15) years; preferably those in which one or 

more of the members of your project team provided the same or 

similar services as requested herein 
o 
Indicate the scope of services provided to each referenced client 
 4.   Tab 3 
 General Terms and Conditions 
The Offeror must provide a description of any and all proposed deviations from 

the ASPA General Terms and Conditions. 
5.   Tab 4 
 Additional Information 
The Offeror may include additional information, including company and product 

brochures. 
 ASPA reserves the right to reject any proposal when, in its opinion, the Proposer has 
insufficient experience, responsibility, skill, financial standing or business standing to 
perform the proposed service in strict compliance with the specifications, or when the 
information provided by the Proposer is deemed by the SEB as insufficient for making a 

judgment.  (
See also 
Section 3.5 Firm Experience and Capabilities) 
 ASPA also reserves the right to check on references and to request additional 
information from any Proposer to assist ASPA in its consideration of the proposals. 
 X.   CONTRACT AND PAYMENT TERM 
 A.   The term for this contract is 
200 calendar days
. 
 B.   The contract term shall be initiated by the issuance of a Notice to Proceed by ASPA at 
which time a contract completion date will be established. 
 C.   Successful Offeror shall agree to have ASPA retain 20% of the Contract amount, which 
will be retained by ASPA from each monthly invoice/pay application submitted by the 
contractor for approval of payment, for a period of 30 days after the successful 

completion of the project. 
 XI.   TYPE OF CONTRACT 
 A.   The successful Offeror will provide services to ASPA under a combination of Firm-Fixed 
Price and Unit Price, itemized contract agreement. 
 B.   The  successful  Offeror  shall  be  an  independent  contractor  and  not  an  agent  or 
employee of the American Samoa Power Authority. 
 ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 13 C.  The successful Offeror shall furnish the necessary personnel, materials, insurance, 
licenses, permits, equipment, ground transportation to and from work areas, and 
otherwise do all things necessary to perform the work and services specified in the SOW 
and to the satisfaction of AS

  
occupational disease, occupational health and safety laws, statues, and regulations 

to the full extent applicable. 
 2.   ASPA will not be held responsible in any way for claims filed by the successful Offeror 
or its employees for services employed under the terms of this RFP or the contract. 
 XII.   BASIS FOR SELECTION 
 
s shall be 
nominated by the Procurement Manager and approved by the Executive Director.  Submission of 
a proposal shall constitute a waiver of any challenge or dispute of the SEB members, as well as 
the choice of methodology set forth on the SEB score sheets. The award will be made by ASPA in 

  Individual SEB scores will remain confidential.   
 A determination shall be made by the SEB of those responsible Offerors whose proposals are 
susceptible of being selected for award.  Discussions may be conducted by the SEB with those 

responsible Offerors whose proposals are determined to be responsive and responsible to the 
RFP. These discussions shall only be conducted for the purpose of obtaining clarification from the 

Offeror on its proposal to ensure full understanding of and responsiveness to the RFP 

requirements.  Discussions shall be conducted individually with each offeror and care shall be 

s is disclosed. 
All Offerors with whom discussions are conducted shall be accorded an opportunity to revise 
their proposals in response to specific clarifications based on the discussions.  Unless the 
Procurement Manager determines that satisfactory eviden

made, as set forth in Procurement Rules ยง3-114, Offerors will not be permitted to revise their 
proposals after proposal opening. 
 The results of the evaluation will be documented, and written recommendation by the SEB will 
be sent to the Procurement Manager. Recommendation for award is sent to the Executive 
Director, Grantor (if any) and Board of Directors (as necessary). 
 ASPA reserves the right to make the award to the offeror that submits the proposal, which meets 
the requirements set forth herein and is in the best interests of ASPA after taking into 
consideration the aforementioned factors.  ASPA also reserves the right to select portions of a 
proposal, or to reject any and all proposals. 
    ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 14 XIII.   EVALUATION CRITERIA 
 A. The proposal must contain responses to Proposal Requirements.  Points indicated are the 
number that can be achieved for each respective component: 

  B. ASPA reserves the right to make the contract award to the Offeror that submits the proposal 

which best meets the requirements set forth herein and which is in the best interest of ASPA 
after taking into consideration the aforementioned factors. 
 XIV.   QUALIFICATION OF OFFERORS 
 A.   At  minimum,  the  Offeror  shall  submit  the  informat

 Qualification Form (Attachment C) and section XXIV. 
 B.   ASPA may make such investigations as it deems necessary to determine the ability of 
the Offeror to perform the work. 
Category
 Category
 Weight
 Category
 Score
 1.   PRICE
 40    2.   TECHNICAL ABILITY
 - Qualifications and
 experience on sewer line projects of 
similar size and scope
   30   3.   STAFF QUALIFICATIONS
 -Experience in similar
 A/E wastewater collection
 projects
 -
 projects
 -References
    15   4.   PAST PERFORMANCE
 -Reference checks
 -Demonstrated history of completing projects on schedule 
and within budget
    15  ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 15 C.The Offeror shall furnish to ASPA such additional information and data for this purpose 
as ASPA may request, or the proposal may be deemed non-responsive. 
 XV.   MULTIPLE PROPOSALS
COLLUSION 
 A.   If more than one Proposal is submitted by any one party or in the name of its clerk, 
partner, or other person, all Proposals submitted by said party may be rejected by 
ASPA. 
 B.If requested by ASPA to do so, an Offeror may submit an alternate Proposal. 
 C.   If ASPA believes that collusions exists amongst any Offerors, the participants in such 
collusion will be disqualified from contract award consideration. 
 D.   Proposals  in  which  the  proposed  costs  and  fees  are  unreasonably  high  or 

  XVI.   BUSINESS LICENSE 
 A.   An  Offeror  from  elsewhere  other  than  American  Samoa  shall  be  appropriately 


be skilled and regularly engaged in the general type and size of work called for under 

this RFP. 
 B.The successful Offeror shall possess a currently valid American Samoa Business License 
prior to the execution of this contract. 
 XVII.   CONTRACT DOCUMENTS 
A.   The Contract Documents which govern all work set forth by this RFP consist of the 
following: 
1.  This RFP 

2.  All Attachment, Exhibits and Appendix to this RFP 

3.  All addenda to this RFP; 

4.  The Contract (or the Agreement). 
5. The following which may be issued on or after the Effective Date of the 
Agreement and are not attached to this RFP, to wit; Notice to Proceed, Written 
Amendments, Field Orders, Work Change Directives and Change Orders. 
6.  There are no Contract Documents other than those listed above. 
 
 A.   Each Offeror must inform itself of the conditions relating to the execution of the work.  

B.   The Offeror will make itself thoroughly familiar with all the Contract Documents prior 
to execution of the Agreement. 

C.   Each Offeror shall inform itself of, and the Offeror awarded the Contract shall comply with, 
federal and territorial statutes and ordinances relative to the execution of the work, including but 

not limited to, applicable regulations which concern the following: 
 ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 16 1.   Wage rates; 
 2.   Non-discrimination in the employment of labor; 
 
3.   Protection of public and employee safety and health; 
 4.   Environmental protection; 
 5.   Historic preservation; 
 6.   Protection of natural resources; 
 7.   Fire protection; 
 8.   Burning and non-burning requirements; 
 9.   Permits and fees; 
10. Similar subjects. 
 D.   The Offeror agrees to a proposal by the requirements under Executive Order No. 
11246, as amended, including specifically the provisions of the equal opportunity 
clause. 
 XIX.   WITHDRAWAL OF PROPOSAL 
A.   Any proposal may be withdrawn prior to the scheduled time for the opening of 
Proposals by notifying ASPA in a written request. 
B.   No Proposal may be withdrawn after the time scheduled for opening of Proposals. 
 XX.   OPENING AND EVALUATION OF PROPOSALS 
A.   In accordance with Procurement Rule ยง 3-110, Proposals will be opened and recorded 
as part of the RFP record on the date and at the time indicated in Section VI, Part B 
of this document. 
B.   All Proposals will be opened at the ASPA Procurement Conference Room in Tafuna, 
American Samoa or in another location as designated by the ASPA Procurement 
Manager in Writing. 
 XXI.   EXECUTION OF CONTRACT 

the Contract to ASPA, together with any other documents as may be required by 
ASPA. 
 XXII.   RFP CONDITIONS 
A.   This RFP does not commit ASPA to award a contract or to pay any costs incurred in 
the preparation of this proposal. 
B.   The American Samoa Power Authority reserves the right to do the following: 
ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 17 1. Reject any Offeror for being non-responsive to the Proposal requirements 
which are contained in this RFP; 
2. Reject all proposals and reissue an amended RFP; 
3. Request additional information from any Offeror submitting a proposal; 
4. Select an Offeror for award based on ot

capability to complete work in a timely fashion or substantive and relevant 
work experience); 
5. Negotiate a contract with the Offeror selected for award; 
6. Waive any non-material violations of rules in this RFP. 
C.   ASPA reserves the right to issue any addendum to this RFP, after which the following 
steps will be followed: 
1.  
OFFERORS shall send ASPA a signed Receipt of Addenda from confirming the 
receipt of any Addendum; 
2.  
OFFERORS  shall  submit  any  additional  information  as  is  required  by  any 
Addendum; 
3.  
If any Offeror fails to acknowledge the receipt of any such Addendum, the 



 4.  
If any 

Supplementary Proposal may be submitted in order to revise the original 

Proposal; 
5.  
Supplementary Proposals must be received by ASPA prior to the scheduled 
time for the opening of Proposals. 
 
 A.   It is the intention of ASPA to award the contract only to an Offeror who is able to 
furnish satisfactory evidence that the Offeror has the requisite experience and 
ability, including sufficient capital, facilities, and employees, which are necessary to 
prosecute the work successfully and promptly and to complete it within the terms 
set forth in the contract. 
 1.   Please provide past project experience on similar architectural and engineering 

services performed for a community wastewater collection system.   
 2.   Please list experience in American Samoa and/or in similar remote locations 
with limited infrastructure. 
 3.   Please   list   any   sources/suppliers/manufacturers   of   materials   and 
  prefab 
elements. 
 4.   Please provide recommendations that might help improve the project overall in 
terms of maintenance and operations. 
 
 C), as part of the total proposal package. 
ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 18  XXIV.   AWARD OF CONTRACT 
A.   Within forty (40) calendar days after the opening of offers, unless otherwise stated 
in the Notice to Offerors, ASPA will accept one of the offers in accordance with the 
selection criteria.  The acceptance of the offer will be by written Notice of Award, 

mailed or delivered to the office designated in the proposal. In the event of failure 

of the lowest responsive, responsible offeror to sign and return the Contract with 

acceptable payment and performance bonds, as prescribed herein, ASPA may award 
the contract to the next lowest responsive, responsible qualified offeror. Such 
award, if made, will be made within ninety (90) days after the opening of proposals.  
Before a Contract is finalized, ASPA may require the apparent low offeror to submit 
a complete statement of the origin, composition, manufacture and availability of 

replacement parts and services for any or all materials to be used in the work, 

together with samples.  These samples may be subjected to the tests provided for in 

these Contract Documents to determine their quality and fitness for the work. 
 XXV. PAYMENT 
A.   
General. 
In consideration of the faithful performance of the Work prosecuted in 
accordance with the provisions of the Contract, ASPA will pay the Contractor in 

United States dollars for all such goods and services delivered or rendered pursuant 
to the Contract on the basis of percentage of completion for lump sum items and unit 
price for all other items, all as more particularly described in the Contract. 
B.    
Partial Payments. 
Partial Payments may be made from time to time as provided in 
the Contract. Partial payments shall not be construed to affect the right, hereby 

reserved, of ASPA to reject the whole or any part of any work, should such work be 

later found not to comply with the provisions of the Contract. All estimated quantities 

of work for which partial payments have been made are subject to review and 

correction on the final estimate. Payment by ASPA and acceptance by the Contracto
r of partial payments based on periodic estimates of quantities of work performed 

shall not, in any way, constitute acceptance of the estimated quantities used as the 

basis for computing the amount of the partial payments. 
Before the first working day of each calendar month, the Contractor shall prepare a 
detailed estimate of the amount earned for the separate portions of the work for 
review and approval by ASPA.  As used in this Section, the words "amount earned" 

means the value, on the date of the estimate for partial payment, of the work 

completed in accordance with the Contract and the value of approved materials 

delivered to the project site suitably stored and protected prior to incorporation into 

the work. 
C.    

 In addition to any other amount which ASPA 
may otherwise retain hereunder or under the Contract, in the event the successful 

Offeror is in material breach of the Contract, ASPA may withhold all or part of any 
payment or payments otherwise due the Contractor if ASPA reasonably  determines  


the agreed upon terms of the contract. 
D.   
 Qualification For Partial Payment For Materials Delivered. 
Materials, as used herein, 
shall be considered those items which are fabricated and manufactured material and 

equipment.  Only those materials for which the Contractor can transfer clear title to 
ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 19 ASPA will be qualified for partial payment.  To receive partial payment for materials 
delivered to the site, but not incorporated in the work, it shall be necessary for the 

Contractor to submit to the Engineer, at least seven (7) days prior to the end of said 

month, a list of such materials. At his sole discretion, the Engineer will approve items 

for which partial payment is to be made.  Invoices of suppliers must support the 

provided by the Contractor, and as approved by an ASPA engineer.  Final payment 

shall be made only for materials actually incorporated in the work and, upon 

acceptance of the work, all materials remaining for which advance payments had 
been made shall revert to the Contractor, unless otherwise agreed, and partial 
payments made for these items shall be deducted from the final payment for the 
Work.  Partial payments will include surface shipping costs to American Samoa.  
Bills of lading will be provided by the Contractor to determine actual shipping costs. 

Partial payments shall not exceed Sixty percent (60%) of material and shipping 

costs. No payment will be made for on-island transshipment to work site. 
 
 A.   Offerors who are not from American Samoa shall be licensed in accordance with 
the provisions of their respective state and country and shall be skilled and 

regularly engaged in the general type and size of work called for under this RFP.  
The selected Offeror shall have an American Samoa Business license prior to 
execution of the Contract.  Offerors from American Samoa shall be licensed in 

accordance with the American Samoa rules and regulations for Contractors. 
 XXVII.  PRIMARY OFFEROR 
A.   The award, if made, will be to a single Offeror. The selected primary Offeror will be 
responsible for successful performance of all subcontractors and support services 

offered in response to this Bid. Furthermore, the ASPA will consider the primary 

Offeror to be the sole point of contact regarding contractual matters for the term 

of the Agreement.  The Offeror must not assign financial documents to a third-party 

without prior written approval by ASPA, and an amendment to the resulting 
Agreement. 
 XXVIII.   SUBCONTRACTOR 
A.   Any Subcontractor that the Offeror chooses to use in fulfilling the requirements of 
this RFP, and  which is expected to receive more than ten percent (10%) of the 
value of the Agreement, must also meet all Administrative, Business and Technical 

Requirements of the RFP, as applicable. 
Nothing contained in the resulting Agreement shall create any relationship 
between ASPA and any Subcontractors, and no subcontract shall relieve the 

Offeror of its responsibilities and obligations. The Offeror is fully responsible to the 
Government for the acts and omissions of its Subcontractors and of persons either 
directly or indirectly employed by any of them. 



to any subcontractor.  Offeror is solely responsible for any payments to or claims 

made by subcontractor. 
ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 20 The Offeror must not change Subcontractor(s) if such changes conflict with the 
work to be performed under this contract.    ASPA recognizes that changes to 

Subcontractor(s) may be necessary and in the best interests of ASPA, however, 

advance notification of a contemplated change and the reasons for such change 

must be made to ASPA no less than ten (10) Business Days prior to the existing 

hat 
the ASPA contract administrator or designee must approve any changes to the 
subcontractor(s) prior to the termination of the existing Subcontractor(s).This also 

includes any changes made between submittal of the Final Offer and actual start of 

the contract. 


educate or otherwise make the new Subcontractor(s) ready to begin work on the 
contract. 
 XXIX.   LISTING OF SUBCONTRACTOR 
A.   All offers shall include the names of each firm to be engaged by the offeror as a 
subcontractor in the performance of the Contract.  The nature and scope of work to 
be performed by such subcontractor shall also be included.  ASPA shall not be 

responsible for payment to any joint contractor or subcontractor.   ASPA only 

recognizes its contractual payment obligations to the successful offeror. 
 XXX.   PROOF OF COMPETENCY OF SUBCONTRACTOR 
A.   Any offeror may be required to furnish evidence, satisfactory to ASPA, that proposed 
subcontractors have sufficient means, equipment, and experience in the types of 
work called for to assure completion of the contract in a satisfactory manner. 
 XXXI.   BUSINESS INSURANCE 
A.   The Contractor shall obtain the insurance coverage designated herein and pay all 
costs associated therewith.  Such insurance shall be for the coverage, amounts, and 
limits as set forth in section (B) below. Before commencing the Work, the Contractor 
shall furnish ASPA with certificates of insurance showing the type, amount, class of 
operations covered, effective dates and date of expiration of policies.   The 


 In the case of a breach of any provision of this section, ASPA, at its option, may take 
out and maintain, at the expense of the Contractor, such insurance as ASPA may 
deem proper and may charge the Contractor with such amounts due.  Nothing 

contained in these insurance requirements is to be construed as limiting the extent 


 payment of damages resulting from its 
operations under the Agreement. 
B.   During the term of the Agreement the Contractor shall maintain such public liability 
and property damage insurance, and automobile public liability and property 

damage insurance that shall protect the Contractor from claims for damages for 

personal injury, including accidental death, as well as from claims for direct property 

damage, which may arise from negligent operations under the Agreement, whether 

such operations are by itself or by a subcontractor or by anyone directly or indirectly 

employed by either of them. The amounts of such insurance shall be as follows 
ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 21 1.     

   The Contractor shall maintain such  statutory 

 insurance  as  are  set  forth  in  the 
American Samoa Code Annotated and American Samoa Administrative 
Code. 
2.     

     The Contractor  shall  maintain  employer   liability 
insurance in the amount of Two Million ($2,000,000 USD). 
 3.   Public/General Liability:
  Public/General liability shall include coverage for 
wrongful death claims, and shall not exclude coverage for explosion, 
collapse, or underground exposure. 
a. The Contractor  shall  maintain  public/general  liability  insurance 
covering third party bodily/personal injury in the amount of Five 
Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000 USD) per person/per 

occurrence with an aggregate of One Million Dollars ($1,000,000 
USD). 
b. The Contractor shall maintain public/general liability insurance 
covering property damage in the amount of Five Hundred 
Thousand Dollars ($500,000 USD) per person/per occurrence or 
coverage that is equivalent as currently available. 
4.   Automobile Liability: 
a. Bodily/personal injury.  The Contractor  shall  maintain  automobile 
liability insurance covering third party bodily/personal injury in the 
amount of Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000 USD) per 

person/per occurrence with an aggregate of One Million Dollars 

($1,000,000 USD). 
b. Property damage. The Contractor shall maintain automobile 
liability insurance covering property damage in the amount of Five 

Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000USD) per person/per 
occurrence with an aggregate of One Million Dollars ($1,000,000 
USD). 
5.     

rance:    Unless otherwise modified, the Contractor  shall 


insurance coverage for one hundred percent (100%) of the Agreement 

amount.  Such insurance shall include coverage for earthquake, landslide, 
flood, windstorm, collapse, or loss due to results of faulty workmanship, 
and shall provide for losses to be paid to the Contractor and ASPA as their 

interests may appear. 
 XXXII.   REQUIRED REPORTS 
A.   In addition to any requirements specified in the SOW, the Contractor shall also 
provide a monthly report of services completed. Monthly reports for the previous 

month shall be submitted to the Project Engineer before the 10
the day
 of each new 
month for verification prior to sending to any other ASPA office including the 

Accounting Division. 
B.   The winning Contractor is required to submit a QA/QC Plan and a Safety Plan to 
ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 22 
to USEPA for approval. 
 XXXIII.   AMERICAN SAMOA LICENSES, PERMITS, TAXES AND IMPORT DUTY 
A.   The  Contractor  shall  be  cognizant  of  and  comply  with  all  American  Samoa 

structure and import duties. Additionally, the Contractor shall: 
 
by applicable law to perform the required contractual work.   Over-the- 


are require
d; 2.   Be cognizant that American Samoa is a protectorate of the United States 
located outside the jurisdiction of the U.S. Customs and U.S. Immigration 



United States will be subjected to customs or import duty unless properly 

manifested before shipment from the United States.  Excise Tax on 

equipment to be incorporated into the project or used on this project may 

be waived upon written request.  Should the Contractor elect to sell the 

equipment locally upon completion of the contract or to use the 
equipment for other than this project rather than shipping the equipment 
away from American Samoa, the equipment will then be subject to the 
appropriate duty rate.  Equipment imported for use other than on this 
project is also subject to local tax; and 

 Health and Safety Plan.  A copy of this plan shall be provided to ASPA. 
 XXXIV.   ADDITIONAL AMERICAN SAMOA REGULATIONS 
A.   Offerors are advised of the following: 
1.   Foreign Labor: Contractors must exercise good judgment in recruiting 
skilled foreign labor.  Unskilled labor used on the project shall be American 
Samoa residents and/or granted permission by law to work in American 
Samoa. The Contractor shall conform to the current immigration laws and 

Codes of American Samoa. 
2.   Social Security for Aliens:
  Alien technicians brought in to perform the work 
will be required to register and receive a social security number if they do 
not already possess one. 
3.   Necessary Inoculations: Inoculations shall be as required by the United 

determine that these inoculations are obtained prior to entry from any 
foreign country or possession. 
4.   Costs of Transportation: The Contractor will be expected to include in its 
bid, among other things, the cost of transporting equipment, materials and 
personnel to and from American Samoa. 
5.  Labor and Material Furnished by ASPA:
   No labor and materials will be 
ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 23 furnished by ASPA.  Certain materials and equipment may be made 
available to Contractor for its use and access, but only in the sole discretion 

of ASPA. Offerors should not assume when preparing bids that ASPA 

material and equipment will be available for their use. 
6.   Equipment and Project Warranty and Maintenance Requirements: All bids 
should include the cost of a one-year equipment and workmanship 

warranty, or length of warranty specified in the project specifications, 

attached hereto as Attachment I. Warranties shall include the cost of all 

parts, labor, equipment, shipping, and  onsite visits to repair or  replace 

any deficient equipment, material, or workmanship and include, at a 
minimum, at least one site visit by the contractor within 1 year of 

  XXXV.   TIME IS OF THE ESSENCE 
A.   Time is of the essence in completing the work to be performed under the 

contract. 
Delays and extensions of time will not be allowed, and a penalty fee of 
$1,000 
per 
day 
shall be assessed for not meeting any of the milestones agreed upon between 
ASPA Project Engineer and the contractor based on the project schedule and shall 
consist of (at a minimum) pre-construction submittals, equipment shipping, 
construction of major project components, and final training and start-up 
services. 
 XXXVI.   REPRESENTATION REGARDING ETHICS IN PUBLIC PROCUREMENTS 
A.   By submitting a bid, each Offeror represents that it has not knowingly influence
d and agrees that it will not knowingly attempt to influence any ASPA employee to 

breach any applicable ethical standards and represents that it has not violated, it 

is not violating and promises that it will not violate the prohibition against 

gratuities and kickbacks set forth in ยง 9-103 of ASPA Procurement Rules or other 
applicable law. 
 XXXVII.   REPRESENTATION REGARDING CONTINGENT FEES 
A.   The offeror represents that it has not retained a person to solicit or secure an 
ASPA contract upon an agreement or understanding for a commission, 
percentage, brokerage, or contingent fee; except for retention of bona fide 

employees or bona fide established commercial selling agencies for the purpose 

of securing business. 
 XXXVIII.   COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS 
A.   Offerors who are awarded a contract under this solicitation shall comply with the 
applicable standards, provisions and stipulations of all pertinent Federal and/or 

local laws, rules and regulations relative to the performance of this contract and 

the furnishing of goods. 
 
 ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 24 SURPLUS AREA FIRMS. 
A.   All offerors must commit to taking affirmative steps to assure that minority firms, 

ms are used when 
possible. Affirmative steps include: 

business 
enterprises on solicitation 
lists; 

business 
enterprises are solicited whenever they are potential 
sources; 
3.   Dividing total requirements, when economically feasible, into smaller 
tasks or quantities to permit maximum participation by small and 

; 4.  Establishing 

delivery schedules, where the requirement permits, which encourage 

enterprises; and 
 4.   Using the services and assistance of the Small Business Administration, 
 and the Minority Business Development Agency of the Department of 
 Commerce. 
 XL.   COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL REGULATIONS 
A.   The Work will be funded by one or more federal agencies. As such, all offerors must 
agree to comply with applicable federal laws and regulations, including, but not 
limited to 


as supplemented in Department of Labor Regulations (41 CFR chapter 

60); 
-
 Department of Labor regulations (29 CFR part 3); 
3.   The Davis-Bacon Act (40  U.S.C.  276a  to  276a-7)  as  supplemented  by 
Department of Labor regulations (29 CFR part 5); 
4.   Sections 103 and 107 of the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act 
(40 U.S.C. 327-330) as supplemented by Department of Labor regulations (29 
CFR part 5); and 
5.   Applicable standards, orders, or requirements issued under section 306 of the 
Clean Air Act (42 U.S. C. 1857(h)), section 508 of the Clean Water Act (33 
U.S.C. 1368), Executive Order 11738, and Environmental Protection Agency 
Regulations (40 CFR part 15). 
 XLI.   VENUE AND CHOICE OF LAW 
A.    
Venue: 
The obligations of the parties hereto are performed in American Samoa, and 
if legal action is necessary to enforce same, exclusive venue shall be within American 
ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 25 Samoa. 
B.    
Governing Law: 
This contract shall be governed by and construed in accordance with 
the laws and case decisions of American Samoa. 
  XLIII. ERRORS IN THE RFP 
A.   If a bidder discovers any ambiguity, conflict, discrepancy, omission or other error in 
the RFP, the bidder should immediately provide ASPA with written notice of the 
problem and request that the RFP be clarified or modified.  Without disclosing the 

source of the request, ASPA may modify the document prior to the closing date by 
issuing an addendum. 
 If prior to the closing date for submissions, a bidder knows or should have known of 
an error in the RFP but fails to notify ASPA of the error, the bidder shall bid at its 
own risk, and if, awarded the contract, shall not be entitled to additional 
compensation or time by reason of the error or its later correction. 
ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 26 ATTACHMENT A
  PROPOSAL TRANSMITTAL FORM 
 Date:   
   AMERICAN SAMOA POWER AUTHORITY 
To Whom It May Concern: 
The undersigned (hereafter referred to as the Offeror) hereby proposes and agrees to furnish all 
of the requested submittal and proposal information pertaining to 
 RFP NO. 
ASPA21.003.WW 
 ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGINEERING SERVICE FOR THE DESIGN AND 
PERMITTING OF A COMMUNITY WASTEWATER COLLECTION SYSTEM, 
AND UPGRADES TO EXISTING PUMPING FACILITIES 
 MATUU/FAGANEANEA
  in accordance with the Scope of Work (Attachment B), General Terms and Conditions, and other 
procurement requirements specified in this document for the prices stated in the itemized 

proposal form(s) attached hereto, plus any and all sums to be added and/or deducted resulting 

from all extra and/or omitted work in accordance with the unit and/or lump sum prices stated in 

the itemized proposal form attached hereto. 
 The undersigned has read and understands the proposal requirements, and is familiar with and 
knowledgeable of the local conditions at location(s) where the work is to be performed.  The 
Offeror has read the Request for Proposal Instructions and General Terms and Conditions attached 

to ascertain that all of the requirements (see check boxes) of the cost proposal are submitted in 

the proposal envelope, with five copies, at the date and time for proposal opening. (See Page Five 



submittal requirement boxes have been checked.) 
 
 Signed Seal 
    Date 
ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 27 ATTACHMENT B 
 SCOPE OF WORK  
I. Scope 
The American Samoa Power Authority issues this Request for Proposal for A/E services from a 
professional consultant with experience in designing Wastewater, Sewage Pump Stations and 
Sewage Collection Systems. The design shall include all process control, mechanical, electrical, and 

structural components and related appurtenances to allow the facilities to be functional and 

operable according to ASPA maintenance and operation capabilities and requirements. 
Appurtenances shall include but will not necessarily be limited to access facilities, fencing, lighting, 
water connections, and power supply including emergency power.  The design shall be in accordance 

with Ten States Standards, Wastewater Pollution Control Federation, USEPA, or other comparable 
standards.   The proposal shall include all personnel, travel, equipment, supplies, overhead, and 
related costs necessary to complete the following Scope of Work (SOW). 
 If required design new pumps and other appurtenances including plumbing modifications and 
control panel upgrades necessary for the Fatu-ma-Futi/Hospital pump station to accommodate 
the addition of flows from the new project service area. 
II. Location 
Avau 
to Fatumafuti area.  
 i. Background 
American Samoa is comprised of several islands including Tutuila, Tau, Ofu, Olosega, and Aunuu.  The islands 
have a combined population of approximately 60,000 with nearly all population residing on Tutuila. The 
current population of American Samoa is 55,155 as of October 2020 based on the latest united nations 
estimates. Nearly 20 miles long and between one and six miles wide, Tutuila is the largest island of the group 
ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 28 with the remaining islands each significantly smaller. The islands are located approximately 2600 miles south-
southwest of Hawaii and 1800 miles north-northeast from New Zealand. 
a. The villages of Avau
, Faganeanea, Matuu and Fatumafuti

Central 

(ESV) for this project are located on the island of Tutuila along the northern and eastern shoreline of 
Pago Pago Harbor.  Current population for the area is 550 based on a 
2010 census. The projected 
20-year planning period population is estimated to be approximately 750.   Currently there is no 

wastewater infrastructure for Faganeanea/Matuu or for its small neighboring villages of Avau and 

Fatumafuti. Efforts at workable on-site wastewater management in these villages are impeded by 

population density, topography, soils characteristics and complex village land tenure among 
residents. High population density is the principal factor that exacerbates the difficulties of effective 
on-site wastewater management in this area where there is little build-able land, soils have high 
permeability, and land ownership is sometimes in dispute. 
 b. Recent Water quality monitoring report can be obtained from American Samoa Environmental 
Protection Agency (ASEPA). The villages of this area routinely consume fish and shellfish from the 

embayment, and also use these waters extensively for recreational activities. Given the risks to the 
public, and the lack of practicable on-site wastewater treatment for this village embayment area, it 
is important to mitigate non-point source wastewater impacts by connecting the project to the 

existing ASPA wastewater treatment and disposal system 

 c. The Utulei Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) is located on the South side of the Harbor. The 

WWTP currently serves the sewered areas from the canneries to the hospital.  Together the two 
canneries contribute significantly to the flows, since all wastewater except process wastewater is 
discharged to the ASPA sanitary sewers. Each cannery has designated wastewater treatment for 
canning process water only which does not include sanitary wastewater flows.  Other flows to the 

Utulei WWTP are primarily domestic waste with contributions from schools, small businesses and 

government buildings including the hospital.  The collected wastewater is sent through multiple 
pump stations to the WWTP. Utulei WWTP is a primary treatment plant with a basket screen, manual 
bar screens, and 4 stacked primary clarifier and anaerobic digester units called clarigesters.  After the 

clarigesters, the effluent passes through a chlorine contact chamber, a sampling and flow monitoring 

station and into the outfall for diffusion into Pago Pago Harbor. The plant operates on a 301(h)-
modified National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit. This permit does not 
specify a maximum permitted flow. This plant has sufficient capacity to accept the additional flows 

from the proposed service area. 
 d. The Utulei WWTP was originally constructed in 1975 which included two clarigesters (No.s 1 and 2).  
It underwent expansion in 1994 with the addition of two more clarigesters (No.s 3 and 4).  The 1992 

drawings for the expanded WWTP indicate a rated average daily flow capacity of 2.2 mgd and peak 
daily flow of 6.13 mgd.  
 e. The Fatumafuti Pump (Lift) Station currently has one 3-hp pumps that can pump between 
70gpm to 
90gpm.  
 f. The Hospital Pump (Lift) Station currently has two 7.5-hp pumps that can pump between 2
00 gpm to 
231gpm.  

 ii. The evaluation shall include: 
1. Review of as-builts. 
2. Field confirmation of existing data including pipe diameter, pipe material, and  condition 
of pipe, slopes and ground and invert elevations. 

3. Measurement of existing flows. 
4. If the existing sewer main cannot accommodate 20 year design flows, the consultant shall 
design a replacement system.  The replacement system shall be designed such that it will follow the 
ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 29 same general route to the WWTP and be able to accommodate flows from the Lift Station over a 20-
year design period. 
  The system shall be designed such that it can be placed into operation without 
interrupting service to customers as provided by the existing sewer main.   

 iii. Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition System 
 SCADA/PLC/CLOUD
 1. The design shall include measures and components to allow the pumping stations designed 
under this RFP to be connected to and monitored by the existing ASPA SCADA/PLC/CLOUD 
System.  The design shall be coordinated with the ASPA SCADA technician.  
iv.
 Restoration and Repair 
1. The design shall include all necessary restoration and/or repair for existing paved roads, utilities, 
drive ways, curbs, sidewalks, walls, fences and other infrastructure that may need to be removed 
and/or replaced to install the facilities designed and constructed under this RFP.   Lawns, gardens and 
other items that may pose an obstruction will be included in restoration.  
 v. Erosion Control and Drainage 
1. Erosion control and drainage measures and facilities shall be included in the design including drainage 
structures, retaining walls, pipe dams, stream bed protection and other elements that will ensure 
erosion control and drainage is accomplished according to best management practices applied for 
similar projects or infrastructure.   

 vi.
 Septic Tank Decommissioning 
1. A plan for decommissioning 
of septic systems will be prepared to allow uninterrupted wastewater 
disposal from homes and other structures to be connected to the new sewer system.  
vii.
 Geotechnical Evaluation 
The consultant shall conduct a geotechnical evaluation of selected areas along the proposed collection system 
route utilizing equipment rented by ASPA, including equipment operators, to allow.   
 determination of soil conditions, including presence of rock, and the impact of findings on design, 
construction, and maintenance. 
 
  preparation of geotechnical profile logs. 
 incorporation of geotechnical considerations into a construction cost estimate 

 viii.
 Traffic Control Plan  
A traffic control plan shall be prepared in accordance with American Samoa Department of Public Safety 
requirements and guidelines similar or equal to those issued by the U.S. Federal Highway Administration.  The 
plan will minimize disruptions to traffic and identify the most suitable detours with identification of land 

ownership.  
ix.
 Environmental Permit Applications 
Applications for all applicable federal and local permits will be prepared and submitted to respective agencies 

upon determination of the appropriate action to purse to satisfy NEPA requirements.
 x. Schedule 
The schedule shall include all tasks required to design, construct and commission the facilities.   Tasks shall 

include but not necessarily be limited to acquisition of funding, rights-
of-way and permits, operator training, 
procurement, design reviews, and testing.  The schedule shall be presented in both Gantt and PERT Chart 
formats.  Design tasks, as provided by the Offereor in their proposal, shall be appropriately highlighted in the 
schedule presentation. 
xi.
 Construction Plans 
Detailed engineering/architectural drawings for construction will be prepared for all facilities designed under 

this RFP.  All drawings shall be prepared in accordance with Standard US Industry Practices for civil, structural, 

electrical, mechanical, highway, and environmental engineering design.  The drawings shall include but not 
ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 30 necessarily be limited to plan and profile sheets, site layouts, engineering data, material takeoff lists, 
geotechnical profile logs, hydraulic and energy profiles, hydraulic model, schematics, process diagrams and 

descriptions, standard details, and electrical schematics and one-line diagrams.  
xii.
 Specifications 
Technical Specifications shall be prepared for all items to be constructed and/or or included in the Invitation 

for Bid for Construction Contract for the facilities designed under this RFP.   The specifications shall be 
prepared according to the most recent Construction Standards Institute (CSI) format.  In addition, any special 
conditions that must be addressed or followed in order to construct the facilities will be outlined in a separate 


 xiii.
 Bid Schedule 
A draft Bid Schedule shall be prepared that includes all pertinent items included in the construction plans and 

specifications.  The Bid schedule shall be prepared for a unit cost, firm fixed-price contract and allow ASPA to 

utilize it as the basis for a construction contract for the facilities designed under this RFP.
    
xiv.
 
 A detailed engi

schedule and applicable industry standards such as RS Means Estimating Manuals and Guidelines.   
Appropriate indexes that account for inflation and other factors that are pertinent to American Samoa 
including special logistical constraints are to be included.    
xv.
 Value Engineering  
In accordance with USEPA Federal Funding requirements, a Value Engineering Analysis (VEA) will be 

completed for the facilities to be designed and upgraded.  The VEA will strive to ensure the design results in 

maximum cost efficiency for operation and maintenance of the facilities. 
xvi.
 Operations Plan   
An Operations Plan will be submitted outlining methods and means by which the facilities will be operated 

and maintained within the resources and/or capabilities of ASPA. 
xvii.
 Information To Be Provided With Proposal 
 Name(s) of expert(s) that will perform work under the contract; include experiences and 
qualification of experts and similar projects they have worked on for utilities similar in size to ASPA. 
 Lump sum price to perform this work.  
 Time line schedule of work including site visits, public meetings; submittal of interim draft reports 

and final report. 
xviii.
 DELIVERABLES: 
1. A 100% completed bound document, entitled Facilities Design 
- WW Collection System 
 Matuu/Faganeanea, American Samoa that documents, with supporting engineering analyses and 
technical information, completion of all items within the Scope of Work.   
 2. Detailed A

U.S. Registered Professional Engineer for all pertinent items within the SOW. 
3. Detailed technical specifications, stamped by a registered U.S. Registered Professional Engineer for 

all items included in the Bid Schedule, in the Construction Standards Institute (CSI) 2000 format. 
4. A Value Engineering Analysis for the completed design stamped by a U.S. Registered Professional 
Engineer. 
5. A Bid Schedule for finite components of the collection system and facility upgrades, and significant 
tasks within the SOW.     
6. A detailed cost estimate for all items in the Bid Schedule including overhead, contingencies, and 
bonding. 
7. A schedule for provision of the deliverables by the Consultant to ASPA in Gantt and PERT Chart 
formats. 
8. Environmental Permit Applications per federal and local agency requirements.   
ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 31 9. Operation and Maintenance Manuals addressing all mechanical, process and control components. 
10. A Traffic Control Plan 
11. An Operations Plan 
12. A Septic Tank Decommissioning Plan 
13. Five
 (5) bound copies and 
five
 (5) electronic copies of all deliverables will be provided.  
 xix. TIME FOR COMPLETION
 The Offerers are required to give the number of days during which their design, based on the Scope of work 
can be completed, including submittal of all deliverables.  The contract period will not exceed 
200 
calendar 
days. 
xx. MEETINGS AND PRESENTATIONS
 The selected firm will be required to attend a minimum of three (3) public meetings and make presentations 
to ASPA management and community residents outlining the design and status of the project. 
xxi. PROPOSAL SECURITY BOND
 
_______
 US Dollars ($
___
) must accompan
y each 

will be retained until the written contract between the Contractor and ASPA is executed.  If the Contractor 
fails to enter into a written c

but not as a penalty.
 xxii. TYPE OF CONTRACT
 Services provided by the selected firm will be under a firm fixed price contract agreement. The selected firm 
will provide such services as an independent consultant and not as an agent or employee of the ASPA. 
Payment will be made in percentages commensurate with 10%, 30%, 60%, 90% draft and Final Submittals 
for each deliverable.   
DESCRIPTION
 PERCENTAGE (%)
 Mobilization
 10 Conceptual Design 
 30 Preliminary Design
 60 Pre
-Final Design
 90 Final Design
 100
  
and occupational health and safety laws, statutes, and regulations to the full extent applicable. 
The Contractor shall be an independent contractor and not an agent or employee of the American Samoa 
Power Authority. 
ASPA will not be held responsible in any way for claims filed by the Contractor or its employees for services 
performed under the terms of this RFP or the contract. 
xxiii.
 MONTHLY REPORTS 
In addition to any requirements specified in the 
Scope of Work
, the contractor shall also provide a monthly 
report of services completed.  Reports shall be submitted directly to the Engineering Services Division 

Manager. 
Archaeological Monitoring:
 The Contractor and ASPA will coordinate with ASHPO to insure that compliance 
with applicable laws are adhered to 
 ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 32 Complete Stamped and Signed Construction Documents 
Address and incorporate 100% Draft Design Construction Documents comments into the Complete Stamped 
and Signed Design Construction Documents and submit, for approval, per the following table, the record set of 

Complete Stamped and Signed Design Construction Documents for construction, ASPA archiving and general 

use. 
COMPLETE STAMPED AND SIGNED DB CONSTRUCTION 
DOCUMENTS
 ELECTRONIC 
FORMATS *
 HARDCOPY 
FORMATs
 Construction Drawings
 AutoCAD & PDF
 Full
-Size Paper 
(ANSI D)
 Construction Specifications
 PDF & 
MS-Word
 N/A
 Product File
 PDF & MS
-Word
 N/A
 Design Calculations
 PDF & MS
-Excel
 N/A
 Written responses to the 100% Draft Construction Documents 
review comments
 PDF & MS
-Excel
 N/A
           * The recipient of the electronic files is ASPA-ESD Engineering. 
    
     
 
 
   
 
 ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 33 ATTACHMENT C  
OFFEROR QUALIFICATION FORM 
  1. NAME OF ORGANIZATION
   2. BUSINESS ADDRESS
   3. TELEPHONE
   -EMAIL ADDRESS
   -FAX NUMBER
   -TAX IDENTIFICATION NUMBER
   4. PRIMARY & SECONDARY CONTACT 
PERSON
   5. TYPE OF BUSINESS 
(Please c
ircle one)
  Corporation
 Partnership
  Proprietorship
 Joint Venture
 Note: For Corporations 
 Articles of In
corporation Certification must be on record with
 the
 
incorporation must be submitted to the revenue branch with application form and 
relevant documents.    Aliens cannot operate sole ownership enterprises and 
partnerships with al
iens are subject to immigration board review.
  6.  PLACE OF ORGANIZATION OR STATE OF 
INCORPORATION
   
NOT A CORPORATION)
      
 
  ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 34 8.  FOR CORPORATIONS: Names & 
Addresses of Directo
rs, Officers, and 
Stockholders with 20% or greater interest in 
the company
   9.  US STATES & TERRITORIES WHERE 
COMPANY IS REGISTERED AS A FOREIGN 
CORPORATION
  10. List all projects of similar scope and extent to which the Offeror has conducted
 within the
 past five
-years; provide the dollar value contract amount for each project. 
And list project owner contact information for reference inquiries.
  -Location and Date of Project
   -Nature and Scope of Contract (provide 
brief description)
   -Name and addre
ss of awarding agency or 
owner for which work was performed
   -Name and address and phone number of 
contact person for the agency
   -Contract Amount
   -Start and End date
   -Date of Completion
   -Was project completed within schedule 
and budget? If no
t, why?
       ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 35  -If project was not completed, please 
explain why
   -Was contract performed under joint 
venture, if so with whom & under what 
arrangement?
   11. List the names of supervisory personnel to be employed on the work under this 
Contract, inclu
ding the qualifications and experience record for each. Personnel 

  -Name
   -Qualifications/Experience
   12. List the names and addresses of at least three (3) references, one of which should
 be a bank or other lending institution, governmental agency, or bonding company.
  -Name of Reference
   -Address and Contact Information
   ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 36 ATTACHMENT D 
  DISCLOSURE STATEMENTS 
 This form must be completed by all offerors and submitted with the proposal. 
 I      
, (Name of owner or partner- all partners must complete a form) 
  of     
the Offeror, that has submitted the attached 
(Name of Company) 
 proposal: 
  (Complete one of the two following statements) 
 1.   I 
have no 
immediate relatives (parents, children or siblings) who are currently employed by 
the American Samoa Power Authority (ASPA) or the American Samoa Government (ASG) 
   (Signed) 
(Title) 
 2.   I 
have 
immediate relatives (parents, children or siblings) who are currently employed by 
ASPA or the ASG. 
 Their names and positions in are as follows. 
 Name 
Relationship to Offeror Position in ASPA 
 
   
 
 
 (Signed) 
(Title) 
    Note:       It is not against ASPA procurement rules for the relatives of government employees to 
bid on and receive government contracts provided they disclose such relationships at the time of 

bidding. 
ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 37 ATTACHMENT E 
 NON-COLLUSION AFFIDAVIT OF PRIME OFFEROR 
  I, _  
, being first duly sworn deposes 
and says that: 
  1.   He/She is    
 (Owner, Partner, Representative or Agent) 
of   
  (Company Name 
 of Offeror that has submitted the attached bid. 
 2.   He is fully informed regarding the preparation and contents of the attached bid and of all 
pertinent circumstances regarding such bid. 
 3.   Such bid is genuine and is not a collusive or false bid. 
 4.   Neither the said Offeror nor any of its officers, partners, owner, agents, representatives, 

employees or parties in interest, including this affiant, has in any way colluded, conspired, 

connived or agreed, directly or indirectly with any other Offeror, firm or person to submit a 

collusive or false bid in connection with the Contract for which the attached bid has been 

submitted or to refrain from bidding in connection with such Contract, or has in any manner, 

directly or indirectly, sought by agreement or collusion or communication or conference with any 

other Offeror, or to secure through any collusion, conspiracy, connivance or unlawful agreement 

any advantage against American Samoa Power Authority or any person interested in the proposed 
Contract; and 
 5.    The price or prices quoted in the attached bid are fair and proper, and are not tainted by any 
collusion, conspiracy, connivance or unlawful agreement on the part of the Offeror or any of its 


 or parties in interest, including this affiant. 
  (Signed)    (Title) 
  Subscribed and sworn to before me this   day of   
, 20   
  (Signed) 
(Title) 
     My Commission expires   
, 20   
ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 38 ATTACHMENT F 
 BID BOND SECURITY INSTRUCTIONS 
  The Bid Bond Security in the sum of 10% of the total bid amount must accompany each Bid and 

shall be furnished to the American Samoa Power Authority as a guarantee and will be retained 

until the written contract between the Contractor and ASPA is executed and the performance and 

labor and materials payment bonds are furnished by the Contractor. If the Contractor fails to enter 


as a penalty. 
 ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 39 ATTACHMENT G 
 BID BOND SECURITY FORM 
   KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THOSE PRESENT 
that                                                                 , as Principal, 

                                          
 , a duly admitted insurer under the 
laws of the Territory 

bound unto the American Samoa Power Authority (ASPA) for the sum of 
                                                                                       dollars ($                                            ), for payment 
of which in lawful money of the United States, will and truly to be made, the said Principal and the 
said Surety binds themselves, their heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns, jointly 

and severally, firmly by these presents. 
 The condition of the above obligation such that, whereas the Principal has submitted a proposal 

for: 
 RFP No. ASPA21.003.WW Architectural and Engineering Service for the Design and Permitting 

of Wastewater Collection System, and Upgrades to Existing Pumping Facilities 
 Matu
u/Faganeanea
  
 Offerors must provide a document that specifically and completely addresses work tasks as 

speci
  
  [Signature Page Follows
] 
 ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 40 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we have hereunto set our hands on this bid bond this   
day 
 of   
, 2020. 
   
 
 Principal:     
  Surety:     
   (Name of Firm) 
(Name of Firm) 
  By:   
     By:   ____________________    
  Name:     
      Name:     ____________________ 
Title:   
      Title:   ____________________ 
 
  Resident Agent: 
 By:   
  Name:     
  Title:   
  Address for Notices: 
Address for Notices: 
   
 
 
 
 
   
   NOTE:   The signature of the person executing this Bid Bond must be notarized.  If an attorney-
in- fact executes the bid 
bond on behalf of the surety, a copy of the current power of attorney bearing the notarized signature of the appropriate 
corporate officer must also be included with the bid bo
nd.  ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 41 ATTACHMENT H 
 PERFORMANCE AND PAYMENT BOND INSTRUCTIONS 
 Based on the Bonding Tier Requirements listed below, a Performance and Payment Bond must be 
provided within a reasonable time after the execution of the written contract.  Both bonds shall 
be in the amount of $                                              (total project cost). The costs of said bonds shall 
be included in the contract price. The Performance Bond and Payment Bond must remain in force 

until the work is completed. 
 Tier 1:  
A 20% retainage is required for contracts greater than $35,000 but less than or equal to 
$5,000,000 
 Tier 2:  
The contractor shall provide 100% performance and payment bond by a company licensed 


fee. 
 The Performance Bond will be in force until the work is completed following the Notice to 

Proceed. 
 The undersigned understands that the American Samoa Power Authority reserves the right to 
reject any or all proposals or to waive any informality or technicality in any proposal in the interest 

thority. 
   RESPECTFULLY SUBMITTED BY: 
  (OFFEROR SIGNATURE) 
   (BY) 
   (TITLE) 
   (BUSINESS ADDRESS) 
ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 42 ATTACHMENT I 
 PERFORMANCE BOND FORM 
  No.   
  KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS 
 That   
 (Full name and address or legal title of Contractor) 
as Principal, hereinafter called Contractor, and   
 (Surety name & complete address including Zip Code) 

 its principal office in the City/Village of   
 as Surety, hereinafter called Surety, are held firmly bound unto   
 (Owner name, complete address + Zip Code and legal title) 
as Obligee, hereinafter called Owner, in the amount of   
 Dollars (_  
), for the payment whereof Contractor and Surety bind 
themselves, their heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns, jointly and severally, 

firmly by these presents. 
 WHEREAS, Contractor has by written agreement dated   
_ 

  
 (Project name and Project number) 
which contract is by reference made a part hereof, and is hereinafter referred to as the 
Contractor. 
 NOW, THEREFORE, THE CONDITION OF THIS OBLIGATION is such that, if Contractor shall promptly 
and faithfully perform said Contract then the obligation shall be null and void, otherwise it shall 

remain in full force and effect. 
 The Surety hereby waives notice of any alteration or extension provided the same be within the 

scope of the contract. Whenever Contractor shall be and is declared by the American Samoa 

Power Authority to be in default under the Contract, the American Samoa Power Authority having 

performed territorial obligations thereunder, the Surety may promptly remedy the default or shall 

promptly: 
 1. Complete the Contract in accordance with its terms and conditions; and 
 

failure to remedy the default or to complete the contract in accordance with the terms and 
conditions in a timely manner; or 
 3. Obtain an offer or offers for completing Contract in accordance with its terms and conditions, 
and upon determination by the American Samoa Power Authority and the Surety jointly of the 
lowest responsive, responsible Offeror, arrange for a contract between such Offeror and the 

 ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 43 American Samoa Power Authority, and make available as work progresses (even though there 
should be a default under the contract or contracts of completion arranged under this paragraph) 

sufficient funds to pay the cost of completion less the balance of the contract prices; but not 

exceeding, including other cost and damages for which the Surety may be liable hereunder, the 

amount set forth in the first paragraph hereof. The terms balance of the contract price, as use in 
this paragraph shall mean the total amount payable by the American Samoa Power Authority to 
Contractor under the Contract and any amendments thereto, less the amount properly paid by 

the American Samoa Power Authority to Contractor. 
 No right of action shall accrue on this bond to or for the use of any person or corporation other 
than the American Samoa Power Authority or successors of the American Samoa Power Authority. 
   [Signature Page Follows
] 
   ASPA21.003 A/E SERVICE FOR DESIGN & PERMITTING OF
 A COMMUNITY WW COLLECTION SYSTEM pg. 44 Signed and sealed this   day   
of 20  . 
  
 
 
 
   (PRINCIPAL) SEAL 
  
  (WITNESS) 
  (TITLE) 
    (MAJOR OFFICER OF SURETY) 
(MAJOR OFFICER OF SURETY) 
  (MAJOR OFFICER OF SURETY) 
(MAJOR OFFICER OF SURETY) 
      (RESIDENT GENERAL AGENT) 

  