   TENDER NOTICE
CONTRACTOR PREQUALIFICATION AND INVITATION FOR BIDS.Umeme Limited is Uganda™s main electricity distribution company listed on the Uganda Securities Exchange and the Nairobi Securities Exchange. The company operates a 20 year electricity distribution concession effective 1st March 2005, from the Government of Uganda.Umeme Limited now invites eligible local contractors to submit sealed Bids in response to the Prequalification requirements and Invitations to Bid for the various services under the scope of categories 
below.a. Ov
erhead Powerline Constructionb. Underground Powerline Construction
c. New Connection Services
d. Underground Emergency Works.
e. Construction and Installation of Distribution Transformers and associated 
HV/LV Line Constructions.Interested b
idders should provide information demonstrating that they have the required technical expertise, 
equipment, qualified personnel and financial capacity to partake in the list services on contractual basis. Existing pre-qualified contractors need to re-apply.The bid documents can be received after completing the respective registration form and submitting it to the 
Umeme email address provided on the form. The Registration Forms can be downloaded from the Umeme 
website (www.umeme.co.ug - use drop down on the right left hand corner under About Us then Available Tenders). A non-refundable fee of 
200,000 Uganda shillings shall be paid to 
Account 9030005662752 Stanbic Bank Ltd Corporate Branch Swift Code SBICUGKX.A pre-bid meeting date shall be communicated to all interested bidders that express their desire and request for the bidding documents.Sealed envelopes of the submissions  must be delivered to the address below at or before 4:00pm                 
10th January 2020 to the attention of:Procurement ManagerUmeme Limited  3rd Street Industrial Area, LugogoP.O Box 23841, Kampala, UgandaTel: +256 312 360 600 Email: procurementbids@umeme.co.ugThe Advert is available at the Entity™s website at www.umeme.co.ugManagementRegulated by the Electricity Regulatory Authority of Uganda