HESCO HYDERABAD ELECTRIC SUPPLY COMPANY LIMITED

RE-INVITATION TO BID

Hyderabad electric supply company (HESCO) a power Distribution Company; its core function is to supply,
distribute and sell power (Electricity) in the area of 13 District of Sind Province invites sealed bids from the
firms for the following work.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tender No Name of work 00 cost in (Rupees)
Construction of Boundary Wall and PCC flooring outside SDO

2020-21 XENICWII46 | Office Building Oderolal at 132 kv Grid station Tando Adam 2286814.00

Eligibility criteria:

Valid PEC license 2020-21, Valid CNIC, list of Too! and Plants, Qualified technical & non-technical
staff list, Registered with Income Tax Department and Registered with SRB (Sindh Revenue Board)
land who are on Active Tax payers list of Federal Board of Revenue.

 

 

losing & Opening Date:

a) Tender! bidding documents could be purchased upto 08.02.2021 from the office of Executive
Engineer Civil Works Division HESCO Hyderabad flat # C-07 Power wing colony HESCO Hyderabad
during office hours.

b) The tenders shall be received/ Dropping on 09.02.2021 upto 11:00 am & shall be opened on the
same date at 11:30 am in office of undersigned in the presence of bidders or their authorized
representative.

Earnest money 6% of BOQ cost In the Shape of call depositipay order in favor of Executive Engineer Civil
Works Division HESCO Hyderabad. (Name of firm must be mentioned on the CDR).
Other Conditions

) unsealed / improper sealed tenders will be rejected straight away, rate should be carefully
mentioned (in figure & words) in the B.0.Q & on tender documents otherwise the tenders will be
rejected

4) Owner along with original CNIC or authorized representative can only receive the tender documents
and submit the bid.

e) The tender documents will be issued on the presentation of written request for particular work on
original letter pad of the firm, from the owner of the firm or their authorized representative having
valid special power of attorney on stamp paper duly attested by Oath commissioner.

) Affidavit in which the bidder under take that he is not involved in any litigation, Affidavit in which it
should be undertaken that the information provided is true and correct

9) Affidavit in which it should be undertaken that he has not been Black listed by any government
Jautonomous body.

h) 01 No work order and completion certificate of same nature of work must be provided.

i) The Bidder will show the Original Documents & (submit one set attested copy) at the time of
Purchase/ Sale of Tender.

1) Price of bidding documents is Rs.1000/- each (Non Refundable)

k) Under rule 33(1) of PPRA Rule 2004, the HESCO Authority reserves the rights to accept or
reject any or all bids or proposals at any time prior to acceptance of bid or proposal.

This advertisement is also available on HESCO website www.hesco.gov.pk as well as on PPRA website
www. ppra.org.pk

wv,
a
Executive Engineer
Civil Works Division
HESCO, Hyderabad
022-9260104

Email xencivilhesco@gmail.com

nr

\
