 

No.

CLARIFICATION SOUGHT

RESPONSE

 

> Why the requirement to have 32000
PPPoE sessions in the metro router?
Typically PPPoE / radius service
should terminate in the core network
for centralized subscriber
management?

 

KPLC fo remove evaluation criteria 6.2.1.8
to allow bidders to source equipment from
any supplier provided the supplier:
1S09001:2015 certified
> Has Quality Assurance Plan
> Has equipment type-tested by an
independent laboratory, accredited
to ISO/IEC17025
> Has experience of supplying the said
equipment by KPLC

Bidders shall respond as per the
requirements in the tender document.

 

 

 

Time for of the tender

document

preparation

 

‘According to Public Procurement and
Asset Disposal Act 2015 section 97 and
Regulation 86, the minimum time for
tender preparation shall be a period of
seven days for national tenders.

KPLC has given adequate time for
bidders to respond.

 

3. TENDER CLOSING DATE

The tender closing date remains 21# January, 2021 at 10.30am.

All other terms and conditions remain as per the Principal Tender Document (PTD)

Yours faithfully,
For: THE KENYA POWER & LIGHTING CO. PLC

DR. JOHN'NGENO

GENERAL MANAGER, SUPPLY CHAIN & LOGISTICS

 

 
ir

0

Kenya Power

The Kenya Power & Lighting Co, L1d.
Central Office - P.O. 8x 30099, Nairobi, Kenya
Telephone - 254-02-3201000
Fax No. 254-02-3201889
Stima Plaza, Kolobot Road

Our Ref: KP1/9A.2/OT/032/ICT/20-21/JN/rmh 14th January, 2021

M/s

 

Dear Sir/Madam,

ADDENDUM NO. 3 TO THE TENDER NO. KP1/9A.2/OT/032/ICT/20-21 FOR DESIGN,
SUPPLY, INSTALLATION AND COMMISSIONING OF FIBER OPTIC NETWORK AND
RELATED SERVICES

The following clarifications are made to the specified provisions of the Tender
document.

1. RELATIONSHIP WITH THE PRINCIPAL TENDER DOCUMENT

Save where expressly amended by the terms of this Addendum, the Principal
Tender Document shall continue fo be in full force and effect. The provisions of this
Addendum shall be deemed to have been incorporated in and shall be read as
part of the Principal Tender Document.

2. CLARIFICATIONS MADE TO QUERIES ON THE TENDER DOCUMENT

The following are responses made to clarifications sought on various issues on the
tender document and shall be deemed to form the Addendum.

 

No. | CLARIFICATION SOUGHT RESPONSE

 

le \s it possible to submit partial of the solution; | Submission of a partial response is not
full scope without Metro Router, Firewalls, | allowed and will result in the bidder

 

 

Billing System. Please clarify being deemed non-responsive
2 What is the project/deployment timeline? | The successful bidder shall be required
Please clarify to commission the solution within six
months from the date of award
3. The technical specification of the Metro | Technical specifications which are
Routers is from a specific vendor, is| equivalent to those stated are
accepted a different solution vendor. permitted provided that the bidder
Please clarify submits sufficiently detailed supporting
documents.

 

4. [As per given network diagram DWDM| Within the scope of this tender the
nodes are shown standalone. Those should | equipment will be deployed as
be connected point fo point or ring | specified. However, Kenya Power has
network. To design DWDM solution, link | an extensive fiber optic network to

 

 

 

 

 
 

No.

CLARIFICATION SOUGHT

RESPONSE

 

14.

What is the capacity required for the FAT?
Witch type of Splitter will be install and how
many can be?

Please clarify

Refer to the Detailed Technical
Specifications as well as other details
provided in the entire tender document

 

SECTION IV - SCHEDULE OF REQUIREMENTS
item #6 "The solution must come with 3-year
software and hardware support service"
conflicts with the SECTION XIIB The Warranty
will remain valid for 1 year. Does it mean
support will be for 3 years but Hardware
warranty only 1 Year? Usually warranty and
support are taken as a package.

Both | year warranty and 3 years
software and hardware support are
required. However, where they are
overiaps the two can be combined
provided sufficient. supporting
documentation is provided.

 

Please provide the Fiber details linking the
sites as described in SECTION IV: Bill of
Materials. Such details should include Fiber
distances, Attenuation measurements and
type of Fiber. This is important for the DWMD
link budget calculation and selection of
correct SFP.

Refer to Schedule of Requirements

 

Clarify the location of the DWDM devices.
Our assumption is the devices should be
located in the data centre with an optical
section from Data Center to the metro sites.
However, the document indicates the
Presence of DWDM components in Site 2
‘and 4 only?

> Confirm that the DWDM core switch
will be in Data Centre 1 &3

> To.complete the ring network, should
there not be another DWDM device
at Data Center 2 or what is the type
of interface connecting the DWDM
devices from Service Router 2 and
what are the distances / fiber
characteristics?

> Since no DWDM lambda
component indicated for Site 1 and
3, what is the interface at these
locations? Also provide Fiber details
(distance and attenuation)

Refer to Schedule of Requirements

 

 

 

Metro Service Router component, should
this device not be a metro switch for Layer
2 transport services to the DWDM core
device? There is already a service router
existing in the core network (data center).

 

Bidders shall respond as per the
specifications in the tender document.

 

 
 

No.

CLARIFICATION SOUGHT

RESPONSE

 

distance, loss across that link is required.
Please clarify

which they shall be integrated in
subsequent projects.

 

How the decision will be faken on non-
compliances? Please clarify

Responses which are non-compliant
with the requirements will be deemed
non-responsive

 

Is required the 6RU Chassis with AC and DC
support. Is possible a solution with 9RU
Chassis? Please clarify

Given the space constraints at various
sites a more compact form factor is
required.

 

The DWDM, why VC4 cross connect is
required? The services are pure Ethernet
and there is no meaning for VC4 cross
connection. Please clarify

Within the scope of this tender the
equipment wil be deployed as
specified. However, Kenya Power has
an extensive fiber optic network to
which they shall be integrated in
subsequent projects.

 

As per technical specifications, the
requirements for the Metro Ring and for the
service router are combined together, can
you please spiit the requirements that are
relevant for each type? Please clarify

Bidders shall respond as per the
specifications in the tender document.

 

What are the configuration required for
each platform? In order to prepare BOM
we need the required interfaces and
services. Please clarify

Refer to the Schedule of Requirements
and Detailed Technical Specifications
as well as other details provided in the
entire tender document

 

10.

The routers, why VXLAN is required, for what
propose? Please clarify

Within the scope of this tender the
equipment wil be deployed as
specified. However, Kenya Power has
an extensive fiber optic network to
which they shall be integrated in
subsequent projects.

 

i.

The Technical specification for FDT, are
insufficient, for a correct choice of the
equipment, also only the items 9/10, can
be, the other items is only splitters
attenuation and splitters aren't required? Is
possible share more technical details?
Please clarify

Refer to the Detailed Technical
Specifications as well as other details
provided in the entire tender document

 

12.

What is the capacity required for the FDT?
Witch type of Splitter will be install and how
many can be?

Please clarify

Refer to the Detailed Technical
Specifications as well as other details
provided in the entire tender document

 

 

 

The Technical specification for FAT, are
insufficient, for a correct choice of the
equipment, also only the items 9/10, can
be, the other items is only splitters
attenuation and splitters aren't required? Is
possible share = more _ technical
details@Please clarity

 

Refer to the Detailed Technical
Specifications as well as other details
provided in the entire tender document

 

 
