Pee eT)
TO CNM CL aac ae DLC at
Enema eer noe

Memo No: 27.12. 8549.187.07 401 20.483 Date: 22109720

Tender Notice e-GP (OTM)

e-Tenders are invited in the National e-GP System Portal (atp/unvweprocuregov.bd) for Carrying of Electrical Hardware Materials SPC &
[Wooden Poles from diffrent Sources tothe Different PBS/Warchouse 10 PBS's under Rangpur Zone & Others Zone under BREB. Tender
submission deadlines are mentioned below

 

 

mer | Closing & ] Closing] Oper

SL..No| Packaee No Description of Works iene. [occas | ier] oie

 

Transportation of Electrical materals SPC & Wooden Poles
rnscn7st.ns | fram Pifferent PREMWaeshone PR's under Rangrwe Zone | aaaney | 14107000 | roca | toon
2 thors Zone under BRER.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tis isan online Tender, where only eTender willbe accepted inthe National GP Portal and no of linehard copies wll be accepted. Tender,

istration in the National e-GP System Partal (hp epracue.go.bd). The es for downloading the -Tender documents TK-2000

(T30 Thousand Only) from the National e-GP System Poral have to be deposited online thous any e-GP resistered banks” branches upto

220 at 17-00, Further information and eudeines are available in the National &-GP System Poral and fram eG helpdesk
progute gov bu) The Procuring Entity reserves the right to accept or reject al the Tenders Proceedings without any Reason

Eligibility of Tenderer: ) The Tenderee shall have a minimum of 03 (Three) year Ganeall experoncs in the Transportation and Ralated
Sorvicas(Carying of goods or electrical line materilsiequipment’s in Govt/Semi-Govt (Autonomous Organizations,
“The Tenderer having the carrying experience from non-government SPC Pole Manufacturing Plant and Local Electrical Materials Manufacturing
Mant to the shove erganization alae can prticpate the tender.

I Manuteetuning Plant established a8 Supplicr to BREB my also participate the tender. In that case that Manufactrer/Supplier shall

{b) Tie Tenderer shall have @ minimum 01 (ona) year o speciicexperence inthe transportation and Related Services electrical line materils
équipment'Poles(SPC/Wooden) in Govt/Semi-Govt Autonomous Organization which als includes,

circa line materials! equipment'sPoles (SPC/Wooden) in Govt/Semi-Govt/Autonomous Organization last

backward from the date of publication oF IFT inthe newspaper,

Or

(2) The Tenderer shall have Successfully completed minimum o1 (One) sontract of aka 85 (Eighty Five) Lae for transporstion/arrying of Poles
ISPCAWooden) fiom lael pole manufacturing Oreonination tn Govt Semi-iovt Autonom Organization aot (Cne) contact ttn 8S
(Eighty Five) Lae for transportationlarrying of electrical line materalslequinments from local electrical materials mamacturing Organization
to Govt Semi-GoutAitonemaus Organization within last 5 (Five) years, 2 yeats counting backward from the date of publication of IFT in
the seipepe,

(©) The minimum amount of liquid assets i.e working capital or credit lines), net of ether contatusl commitments is TK. 30 (Thiny) Lac

srerart affegern oe nag et en et

emotes RCAER( _) 2040-02 e-mail: srangpurigivahoo.som

 

22:09 Te Lo

(A.B. Mahmud Hossain)
erintending Enginee!
Rangpur Zone, BREB, Rangout

    
