TABLE OF CONTENTS

INVITATION TO TENDER.

 

BACKGROUND ...

 

BUSINESS PROPOSA!

 

PRE-QUALIFICATION CRITERIA.

 

EVALUATION CRITERIA.

 

CLARIFICATION OF DOCUMENTS.

 
evidence of access to qualified personnel suitable for the assignment. Interested firms must
provide evidence to demonstrate that they meet minimum requirements as stipulated in
Section 3 above.

5.1. Preliminary Evaluation

The purpose of this stage is to determine the substantial responsiveness of each bidder based
on the contents of their EOI response itself without recourse to extrinsic evidence. This is to
ensure that the bidders have responded to the key requirements of the EOI as stated in the
pre-qualification criteria. Only bidders who score 80 % will be considered for the next

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

stage.
No | Evaluation Criteria Criteria Maximum |
Reference Score (%)
1. | Technical Experience & Capability |
1.1. | Involved in Commercial Solar Generation 3(i) 5
Business
| Presentation of company documents 5
1.2. | Completed at least 3 solar plants on turnkey 3(ii) 30
basis over the last 6 years
1.3 | Involved in Operation of solar plant of 3 (ii) 20
capacity of between 500kW to 1OMW for
not less than 2 years
2._ | Personnel
2.1 | Has suitably qualified personnel 3(iv) 10
(Photovoltaic Solar Expert, Electrical Power
System Engineer, Civil & Structural
Engineer, Financial & Economic Analyst)
3._ | Financial Capability
3.1 | Evidence of Access to financing 3(v) 20
3.2 | Audited Financial Statements for the last 18 10
| months
Total Score (%) 100

 

 

 

 

 

 
INVITATION TO TENDER

DATE: JANUARY 2021

1.1 TENDER NO. KPI/1/3A/4/1/EO1/001/20-21 ON LISTING OF FIRMS FOR THE
DEVELOPMENT OF CAPTIVE SOLAR GENERATION FOR KPLC’S
COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL CONSUMERS

1.2 The Kenya Power & Lighting Company PLC hereinafter referred to as KPLC is seeking
Expressions of Interest (EOI) from suitable Firms for the Development of Captive
Solar Generation for KPLC’s Commercial & Industrial Consumers

1.3. Tenderers may obtain further information from the General Manager, Supply Chain,
KPLC at Stima Plaza, 3" Floor, Kolobot Road, P.O. Box 30099 — 00100 Nairobi,
Kenya,

1.2. Submission of Tender documents

Completed Tenders are to be submitted as PDF Documents in electronic format on
the IES&R(Training School) E-Procurement Web Portal found on the KPLC Website
(www.kple.co.ke) on the due date and time published on the portal. Tenderers are
required to visit the portal from time to time for revised closing dates and
addendums. The Tender is to be submitted ONLINE on or before the submission
date and time indicated on the KPLC tendering portal.

1.3 Tender Opening

Tenders will be opened thereafter in the presence of the prospective bidders or their
representatives who may choose to attend.
5.2. Presentation Evaluation

The bidders who are successful at the preliminary evaluation stage will be invited to make
presentations to the Kenya Power Evaluation team. The purpose of this stage is to perform a
detailed evaluation of each bidder’s response as per their submission and other extrinsic
factors and the bidders must clearly articulate their proposal, their capability and project
implementation methodology. The presentation will be carried out in Nairobi at Kenya
Power’s Institute of Energy Studies and Research (Training School) — Ruaraka, at a date to
be communicated to the progressing bidders during the evaluation exercise. Only bidders

who score 80 % will be considered for the site visit stage.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

No] Evaluation Criteria
Maximum Score (%)
1._| Technology Platform
1.1 | Generation Equipment (Technology &
Vendors) 10
1.2 | Monitoring & Control 10
1.3 | Grid Interface 10
2. | Project Development
2.1 | Studies (Resource assessment, demand
analysis and grid studies) 10
2.2 | Project Financing & Timelines 10
3. | Project Execution
3-1 _| Construction Approach 10
3.2 _| Quality Management 10
3.3__| EHS Management 10
4. | Plant Operation
4.1. | Operation Approach 10
42 | Organization & Staffing 10
Total Score(%) 100

 

 
5.3. Site Visits

Kenya Power will then carry out sites visits for the successful shortlisted bidders in order to
understand and fully appreciate the available technologies in a working environment. The
visits will include two (2) reference sites. The site visit report will then be written by the
evaluation team and the successful bidders will then be invited to submit a Technical and
Commereial proposal through an RFP.

6. Clarification of Documents

A prospective Tenderer requiring any clarification of the Tender Document may notify the
General Manager Supply Chain in writing and ensure receipt is acknowledged at KPLC’s
Physical address indicated and Emails as indicated on the Tender Document and shown
below, KPLC will respond in writing to any request for clarification of the Tender
documents, which it receives not later than seven (7) days prior to the deadline for the
submission of Tenders, prescribed by KPLC. Written copies of KPLC’s response (including
an explanation of the query but without identifying the source of inquiry) will be published
and accessible to all prospective Tenderers on the KPLC’s tendering portal.

Email: JMuigai@kple.co.ke, CMaende@kple.co.ke, VSimiyu@kple.co.ke
END
h) The responsibility of consumers is to provide roof top or ground space for
installation of the PV panels only and they do not have to tie their funds in capital
investments.

3. BUSINESS PROPOSAL

Kenya Power invites Expressions of Interest (EOI) from eligible firms having capacity to
finance, develop and operate captive solar generating plants on equipment leasing basis with
installed capacities of between 500kW and 10MW. The scope of services will include but is
not limited to:

a) Solar energy resource assessment

b) Load Assessment

c) Solar park planning and design

d) Grid interconnection studies and design

) Financing

f) Supply, Installation, testing and commissioning of the solar plant complete with
attendant balance of plant infrastructure

g) Operation of the plant of the plant for a period of 20 years

‘The requirement is however more detailed in a Request for Proposal (RFP) document which
will be issued to shortlisted firms upon evaluation of submissions. Firms will be shortlisted
for participation based on their demonstration of technical and financial capability in
response to this request.

4, PRE-QUALIFICATION CRITERIA

Submission of the EOI will not constitute a bid, The information submitted in the EOI will
be solely used by Kenya Power for the purpose of completing its prequalification exercise
and thereafter in the preparation of a Request for Proposal (RFP) document which will be
issued to the final shortlisted bidders only. Eligible and reputable firms or consortia who
wish to be shortlisted must provide adequate information regarding their company profile,
qualification and competence to undertake such a project and specific experience in
performing similar works. In addition, the firm or consortia must meet the following
minimum requirements;

i. They should be currently involved in offering commercial solar generation services.
Company profile and any other documentary evidence.

ii. They have successfully completed on turnkey basis, at least three (3) solar power
plant projects with an installed capacity of between SOOkW and 10MW over the last
six (6) years. Proper references either in the form of Reference Letters, or Certificate
of Completion for projects fulfilling this requirement must be provided complete

4
Kenya Power

TENDER NO. KPI/1/3A/4/1/EO1/001/20-21 ON LISTING OF FIRMS FOR THE
DEVELOPMENT OF CAPTIVE SOLAR GENERATION FOR KPLC’S
COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL CONSUMERS

JANUARY 2021

ALL TENDERERS ARE ADVISED TO READ CAREFULLY THIS EXPRESSION OF
INTEREST IN ITS ENTIRETY BEFORE MAKING ANY BID

(TENDER DOCUMENT FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST)

THE KENYA POWER & LIGHTING COMPANY LIMITED
CENTRAL OFFICE, STIMA PLAZA,

KOLOBOT ROAD, PARKLANDS,

P.O. BOX 30099-00100,

NAIROBI,

KENYA,

Telephones: +254-020-3201000; 3644000 Pilot Lines
Telephones: +254 -720-600070/1-5; 733-755001/2-3 Cellular
E-mail: IMuigai@kple.co.ke

E-mail2:  CMaende@kple.co.ke
E-mail 3:  VSimiyu@kple.co.ke
Website: www.kple.co.

 

 
2. BACKGROUND

KPLC has an undertaking to sustainably provide cost-effective, reliable and quality power
supply that delight customers, and subsequently better their lives. To this end, the company
has been innovatively evolving its business model in order to enhance the cost-
competiveness and reliability of power supply. A key emerging issue in this regard is the
need to enhance use of clean and renewable energy technologies. Grid-tied Solar
Photovoltaic (PV)systems has in recent years grown as a complementary power source
which can contribute to lowering cost of power. The growth of solar PV is anchored on
tremendous technological and process innovations, which have resulted in drastic reduction
in prices. The global cost of solar modules has for instance reduced by over 80% in the
period 2010-2020. As such, there are opportunities to ensure a cheaper, more reliable energy
mix, by enhancing distributed generation, in partnership with our customers and private
sector developers.

Kenya Power & Lighting Company PLC (KPLC) intends to facilitate development of captive
solar generation for Commercial & Industrial Customers in partnership with private sector
generators. In this arrangement, KPLC will collaborate with private captive solar
developers through equipment leasing. KPLC will undertake the role of project
development by liaising with interested C&1 customers who will provide rooftop space or
ground space for installation of the PV modules. A private sector investor will then be
selected competitively through a request for proposal (RFP) to develop and operate the
grid tied captive solar plants at the customer premises.

The benefits of this approach are as follows:

a) Consumers will benefit from cheaper solar energy generated during sunny hours.
b) The solar plants will include storage with minimum autonomy to cancel out effect
of short-duration supply interruptions which has been a major cause of concern
among some commercial and industrial customers.

‘The developments will take the form of distributed generation with plants sited at
the consumer’s premises. This substantially cuts down on the distribution losses.
The risk of evacuation of excess capacity is low considering that KPLC would take
all the power generated and distribute excess to other customers unlike the case
where the excess energy would be dumped at the developer’s and/or customers
cost.

The equipment leasing approach proposed provides an opportunity for private
sector to participate in investments that do not require a sovereign guarantee.

f) KPLC will consolidate several customer requirements for the investor to benefit
from economies of scale resulting to saving in CAPEX and hence lower cost of
power.

The solution will contribute to the de-carbonisation of the energy mix, and
facilitate the achievement of the climate resilience objectives of Kenya’s National
Adaptation Plan 2015-2030.’

©)

d)

e)

g
with Name, Designation, Mobile Number and Email Address of the relevant point of
contact at the referenced client organization.

iii, They have experience in operation and maintenance of a solar photovoltaic power
plant of capacity of between S00kW and 10MW for a period of not less than 2 years.
Proper references either in the form of Reference Letters, or Certificate of
Completion for projects fulfilling this requirement must be provided complete with
Name, Designation, Mobile Number and Email Address of the relevant point of
contact at the referenced client organization.

iv. They should have suitably qualified personnel in the following areas of expertise:
Photovoltaic Solar Expert, Electrical Power System Engineer, Civil & Structural
Engineer, Financial & Economic Analyst.

v. They must submit evidence of access to financing adequate for a solar photovoltaic
project with an installed capacity of up to 10MW.

vi. They must provide their audited financial accounts for the last Eighteen (18) months
clearly showing profit, turnover and company’s capital.

vii. They will be required to make presentation on their submissions and methodology for
development including financing, construction as well as operation of solar
photovoltaic plants and where necessary facilitate site visits to selected plants
completed or in operation as provided in items (ii) and (iii) above.

This invitation for Expression of Interest shall lead to short-listing of eligible Captive Solar
Generation providers or consortia who will then be invited to make presentations to the
Kenya Power evaluation team. Only those firms who are successful at the presentation stage
will have their sites visited as per the EOI. The site visits will also lead to further short
listing and those shortlisted will be invited through the Request for Proposal (RFP) to
submit both technical and commercial proposals to carry out the assignment.

5. EVALUATION CRITERIA

The evaluation of the EOI will be carried out in three stages as per the pre-qualification
criteria. The bidders who wish to be shortlisted must provide adequate information
regarding their company profile, qualification and competence to undertake such a project
and specific experience in performing similar projects. Each evaluation stage will result in
the short listing of the bidders who will proceed to the next stage. The stages will be:

i) Preliminary Evaluation
ii) Presentation Evaluation
iii) Site Visits

Shortlist of firms for the assignment will be prepared based on detailed references (or letters
of commendation) of similar assignments successfully carried out, access to financing and

5
